AU2004279071B2 - Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system - Google Patents
Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- AU2004279071B2 AU2004279071B2 AU2004279071A AU2004279071A AU2004279071B2 AU 2004279071 B2 AU2004279071 B2 AU 2004279071B2 AU 2004279071 A AU2004279071 A AU 2004279071A AU 2004279071 A AU2004279071 A AU 2004279071A AU 2004279071 B2 AU2004279071 B2 AU 2004279071B2
- Authority
- AU
- Australia
- Prior art keywords
- information
- local time
- local
- interest
- end user
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
- G06Q30/0241—Advertisements
- G06Q30/0251—Targeted advertisements
- G06Q30/0255—Targeted advertisements based on user history
- G06Q30/0256—User search
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
- G06Q30/0241—Advertisements
- G06Q30/0242—Determining effectiveness of advertisements
- G06Q30/0246—Traffic
Description
WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 DETERMINING AND/OR USING END USER LOCAL TIME INFORMATION IN AN AD SYSTEM 1. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1.1 FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention concerns advertising. In particular, the present invention concerns improving advertising using end user local time information, such as local time-of-day, local day-of-week, local date, and/or local season information (referred to generally as "time information" in the specification without loss of generality).
1.2 RELATED ART Advertising using traditional media, such as television, radio, newspapers and magazines, is well known. Unfortunately, even when armed with demographic studies and entirely reasonable assumptions about the typical audience of various media outlets, advertisers recognize that much of their ad budget is simply wasted. Moreover, it is very difficult to identify and eliminate such waste.
Recently, advertising over more interactive media has become popular. For example, as the number of people using the Internet has exploded, advertisers have come to appreciate media and services offered over the Internet as a potentially powerful way to advertise.
Advertisers have developed several strategies in an attempt to maximize the value of such advertising. In one strategy, advertisers use popular presences or means for providing interactive media or services (referred to as "Websites" in the specification without loss of generality) as conduits to reach a large audience. Using this first approach, an advertiser may place ads on the home page of the New York Times Website, or the USA Today Website, for example. In another strategy, an advertiser may attempt to target its ads to narrower niche audiences, thereby increasing the likelihood of a positive response by the audience. For example, an agency promoting tourism in the Costa Rican rainforest might place ads on the ecotourism-travel subdirectory of the Yahoo Website. An advertiser will normally determine such targeting manually.
Regardless of the strategy, Website-based ads (also referred to as "Web ads") are often presented to their advertising audience in the form of "banner ads" a rectangular box that WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 includes graphic components. When a member of the advertising audience (referred to as a "viewer" or "user" in the Specification without loss of generality) selects one of these banner ads by clicking on it, embedded hypertext links typically direct the viewer to the advertiser's Website. This process, wherein the viewer selects an ad, is commonly referred to as a "click-through" ("Click-through" is intended to cover any user selection.). The ratio of the number of click-throughs to the number of impressions of the ad the number of times an ad is displayed or otherwise rendered) is commonly referred to as the "click-through rate" or "CTR" of the ad.
A "conversion" is said to occur when a user consummates a transaction related to a previously served ad. What constitutes a conversion may vary from case to case and can be determined in a variety of ways. For example, it may be the case that a conversion occurs when a user clicks on an ad, is referred to the advertiser's Web page, and consummates a purchase there before leaving that Web page. Alternatively, a conversion may be defined as a user being shown an ad, and making a purchase on the advertiser's Web page within a predetermined time seven days). In yet another alternative, a conversion may be defined by an advertiser to be any measurable/observable user action such as, for example, downloading a white paper, navigating to at least a given depth of a Website, viewing at least a certain number of Web pages, spending at least a predetermined amount of time on a Website or Web page, etc. Often, if user actions don't indicate a consummated purchase, they may indicate a sales lead, although user actions constituting a conversion are not limited to this. Indeed, many other definitions of what constitutes a conversion are possible. The ratio of the number of conversions to the number of impressions of the ad the number of times an ad is displayed or otherwise rendered) is commonly referred to as the conversion rate. If a conversion is defined to be able to occur within a predetermined time since the serving of an ad, one possible definition of the conversion rate might only consider ads that have been served more than the predetermined time in the past.
The hosts of Websites on which the ads are presented (referred to as "Website hosts" or "ad consumers") have the challenge of maximizing ad revenue without impairing their users' experience. Some Website hosts have chosen to place advertising revenues over the interests of users. One such Website is "Overture.com," which hosts a so-called "search engine" service returning advertisements masquerading as "search results" in response to user queries. The Overture.com Website permits advertisers to pay to position an ad for their Website (or a target Website) higher up on the list of purported search results. If such schemes where the advertiser WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 only pays if a user clicks on the ad cost-per-click) are implemented, the advertiser lacks incentive to target their ads effectively, since a poorly targeted ad will not be clicked and therefore will not require payment. Consequently, high cost-per-click ads show up near or at the top, but do not necessarily translate into real revenue for the ad publisher because viewers don't click on them. Furthermore, ads that viewers would click on are further down the list, or not on the list at all, and so relevancy of ads is compromised.
Search engines, such as Google for example, have enabled advertisers to target their ads so that they will be rendered in conjunction with a search results page responsive to a query that is relevant, presumably, to the ad. Although search result pages afford advertisers a great opportunity to target their ads to a more receptive audience, search result pages are merely a fraction of page views of the World Wide Web.
Some online advertising systems may use ad relevance information and document content relevance information concepts or topics, feature vectors, etc.) to "match" ads to (and/or to score ads with respect to) a document including content, such as a Web page for example.
The foregoing ad serving systems can be thought of as keyword-targeted systems (where ads are targeted using terms found in a search query) and content-targeted systems (where ads are targeted using content of a document). Although keyword-targeted and content-targeted ad systems have improved the usefulness of ads, and consequently their performance in terms of click-through rate, conversion rate, etc.), there is still plenty of room for improvement. Such improvement can be expected with better targeting.
Some ad servers bid management tools) allow advertisers to specify time of day ad targeting. This offers some improvement in ad targeting. Unfortunately, however, time-of-day ad targeting techniques use a fixed time zone in their ad serving determination. Even if such businesses have ads that are relevant to a search query or a Web page, if the end user viewing a search results Web page or the content of a Web page is outside a preferred temporal window, the ads may not be very useful and may not perform well.
Consider, for example, a nationwide courier service that offers package pickup until midnight for next day delivery, while most of their competitors only offer package pickup until 8:00 PM, local time. If such a nationwide courier service wants to advertise on the Intemrnet, the value to them of serving their ads from 7:30 PM to 11:55 PM (or some other time range corresponding to a time when users will not be able to meet an 8:00 PM pickup deadline, but should be able to meet a 12 midnight pickup deadline) might be higher than the value of serving WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 their ads from 9:00 AM to 7:29PM (because they have less competition after 8:00 PM and customers are likely to use their services that day). However, the value to the courier of serving its ads after 12:00 midnight might drop precipitously since the courier can no longer differentiate its services from its competitors for an end user that needs something to be delivered that day. Note in this example that the value of serving the ads depends on the time for the end user to which the ad will be rendered. For example, an ad touting pickup until midnight may have little value for a user on the east coast at 1:30 AM, but great value for a user on the west coast at 10:30 PM. If, however, the time-of-day is determined merely using a fixed time zone, this great difference in value cannot be used in ad serving.
As another example, advertisers may want to apply audience demographics which are relevant only if the local time of the audience is lknown. For example, an advertiser may want to increase the score of their ad during lunchtime on weekdays if demographic studies indicate that many people use the Intemrnet to look for personal items during their lunchtime. Suppose an ad server (or a bid manager) is located in the Mountain time zone. At 10:30 AM Mountain time, it is only 9:30 AM Pacific time, but 12:30 PM Eastern time. Thus, at 10:30 AM Mountain time, the advertiser may want to increase the score of its ad for an end user on the east coast, but not for an end user on the west coast.
In view of the foregoing, there is a need for improving the usefulness, and consequently the performance, of advertisements. In particular, there is a need to allow businesses to better target their ads to a responsive audience.
2. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION: The present invention improves the usefulness, and consequently the performance, of advertisements. The present invention allows businesses to better target their ads to a responsive audience. The present invention may do so by determining and using end user local time information.
The present invention may use end user local time information when determining a relevancy score of an ad.
Alternatively, or in addition, the present invention may use end user local time information in an attribute position) arbitration. Such end user local time information may be associated with price information, such as a maximum price the advertiser is willing to pay WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 for a specified result ad impression, ad selection, ad conversion, etc.). Such end user local time information may be associated with ad performance information.
Alternatively, or in addition, the present invention may track ad performance information on the basis of end user local time information. The present invention may use this local time performance information to automatically adjust (with the advertiser's consent) price information (such as a maximum price the advertiser is willing to pay) for an ad to improve a score of the ad.
Alternatively, or in addition, the present invention may select or modify the content of an ad creative, and/or of a landing page using end user local time information. For example, end user local time information may be inserted into an ad creative. As another example, different landing pages with different content can be used for different end user local times.
The present invention may also provide tools, such as user interfaces, to allow an advertiser to enter and/or modify end user local time information, such as end user local time information used for targeting and end user local time-dependent price information.
3. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is a high-level diagram showing parties or entities that can interact with an advertising system.
Figure 2 is a diagram illustrating an environment in which, or with which, the present invention may operate.
Figure 3 is a bubble diagram illustrating various operations that may be performed, and various information that may be used, and/or generated by the present invention.
Figure 4 illustrates exemplary request information that is consistent with the present invention.
Figure 5 illustrates exemplary ad information that is consistent with the present invention.
Figure 6 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for performing an ad selection operation in a manner consistent with the present invention.
Figure 7 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for performing a scoring operation in a manner consistent with the present invention.
Figure 8 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for performing an ad modification operation in a manner consistent with the present invention.
WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 Figure 9 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method of performing user behavior feedback operations in a manner consistent with the present invention.
Figure 10 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for performing ad information entry and/or management operations in a manner consistent with the present invention.
Figure 11 is a block diagram of exemplary apparatus that may perform various operations in a manner consistent with the present invention.
4. DETAILED DESCRIPTION The present invention may involve novel methods, apparatus, message formats, and/or data structures for obtaining and using end user local time information in an ad system. The following description is presented to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention, and is provided in the context of particular applications and their requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art, and the general principles set forth below may be applied to other embodiments and applications. Thus, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown and the inventors regard their invention as any patentable subject matter described.
In the following, environments in which, or with which, the present invention may operate are described in 4.1. Then, exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in 4.2. Finally, some conclusions regarding the present invention are set forth in 4.3.
4.1 ENVIRONMENTS IN WHICH, OR WITH WHICH, THE PRESENT INVENTION MAY OPERATE 4.1.1 EXEMPLARY ADVERTISING ENVIRONMENT Figure 1 is a high level diagram of an advertising environment. The environment may include an ad entry, maintenance and delivery system (simply referred to as an ad server) 120.
Advertisers 110 may directly, or indirectly, enter, maintain, and track ad information in the system 120. The ads may be in the form of graphical ads such as so-called banner ads, text only ads, image ads, audio ads, video ads, ads combining one of more of any of such components, etc. The ads may also include embedded information, such as a link, and/or machine executable instructions. Ad consumers 130 may submit requests for ads to, accept ads responsive to their WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 request from, and provide usage information to, the system 120. An entity other than an ad consumer 130 may initiate a request for ads. Although not shown, other entities may provide usage information whether or not a conversion or click-through related to the ad occurred) to the system 120. This usage information may include measured or observed user behavior related to ads that have been served.
The ad server 120 may be similar to the one described in Figure 2 of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/375,900 (incorporated herein by reference), entitled "SERVING ADVERTISEMENTS BASED ON CONTENT," filed on February 26, 2003 and listing Darrell Anderson, Paul Bucheit, Alex Carobus, Claire Cui, Jeffrey A. Dean, Georges R. Harik, Deepak Jindal, and Narayanan Shivakumar as inventors. An advertising program may include information concerning accounts, campaigns, creatives, targeting, etc. The term "account" relates to information for a given advertiser a unique e-mail address, a password, billing information, etc.). A "campaign" or "ad campaign" refers to one or more groups of one or more advertisements, and may include a start date, an end date, budget information, geo-targeting information, end user local time information, syndication information, etc. For example, Honda may have one advertising campaign for its automotive line, and a separate advertising campaign for its motorcycle line. The campaign for its automotive line may have one or more ad groups, each containing one or more ads. Each ad group may include targeting information a set of keywords, a set of one or more topics, etc.), and price information maximum cost (cost per click-though, cost per conversion, Alternatively, or in addition, each ad group may include an average cost average cost per click-through, average cost per conversion, etc.).
Therefore, a single maximum cost and/or a single average cost may be associated with one or more keywords, and/or topics. As stated, each ad group may have one or more ads or "creatives" (That is, ad content that is ultimately rendered to an end user.). Each ad may also include a link to a URL a landing Web page, such as the home page of an advertiser, or a Web page associated with a particular product or service). Consistent with the present invention, the ad information may include end user local time targeting information, end user local time performance information, and/or end user local time price information. Naturally, the ad information may include more or less information, and may be organized in a number of different ways.
Figure 2 illustrates an environment 200 in which the present invention may be used. A user device (also referred to as a "client" or "client device") 250 may include a browser facility (such as the Explorer browser from Microsoft, the Opera Web Browser from Opera Software of 7 WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 Norway, the Navigator browser from AOL/Time Warner, etc.), an e-mail facility Outlook from Microsoft), or any other software application or hardware device used to view content, etc.
A search engine 220 may permit user devices 250 to search collections of documents Web pages). A content server 210 may permit user devices 250 to access documents. An e-mail server (such as Hotmail from Microsoft Network, Yahoo Mail, etc.) 240 may be used to provide e-mail functionality to user devices 250. An ad server 210 may be used to serve ads to user devices 250. The ads may be served in association with search results provided by the search engine 220. However, content-relevant ads may be served in association with content provided by the content server 230, and/or e-mail supported by the e-mail server 240 and/or user device email facilities.
As discussed in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/375,900 (introduced above), ads may be targeted to documents served by content servers. Thus, one example of an ad consumer 130 is a general content server 230 that receives requests for documents articles, discussion threads, music, video, graphics, search results, Web page listings, etc.), and retrieves the requested document in response to, or otherwise services, the request. The content server may submit a request for ads to the ad server 120/210. Such an ad request may include a number of ads desired. The ad request may also include document request information. This information may include the document itself page), a category or topic corresponding to the content of the document or the document request arts, business, computers, arts-movies, arts-music, etc.), part or all of the document request, content age, content type text, graphics, video, audio, mixed media, etc.), geolocation information, end user local time information, document information, etc. Consistent with the present invention, the request may also include end user local time information, or at least information from which end user local time information may be derived or estimated.
The content server 230 may combine the requested document with one or more of the advertisements provided by the ad server 120/210. This combined information including the document content and advertisement(s) is then forwarded towards the end user device 250 that requested the document, for presentation to the user. Finally, the content server 230 may transmit information about the ads and how, when (such as end user local time information), and/or where the ads are to be rendered position, click-through or not, impression time, impression date, size, conversion or not, etc.) back to the ad server 120/210. Alternatively, or in addition, such information may be provided back to the ad server 120/210 by some other means.
WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 Consistent with the present invention, the ad server 120/210 may store ad performance information on the basis of end user local time information.
Another example of an ad consumer 130 is the search engine 220. A search engine 220 may receive queries for search results. In response, the search engine may retrieve relevant search results from an index of Web pages). An exemplary search engine is described in the article S. Brin and L. Page, "The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Search Engine," Seventh International World Wide Web Conference, Brisbane, Australia and in U.S. Patent No.
6,285,999 (both incorporated herein by reference). Such search results may include, for example, lists of Web page titles, snippets of text extracted from those Web pages, and hypertext links to those Web pages, and may be grouped into a predetermined number of ten) search results.
The search engine 220 may submit a request for ads to the ad server 120/210. The request may include a number of ads desired. This number may depend on the search results, the amount of screen or page space occupied by the search results, the size and shape of the ads, etc. In one embodiment, the number of desired ads will be from one to ten, and preferably from three to five. The request for ads may also include the query (as entered or parsed), information based on the query (such as end user local time information, geolocation information, whether the query came from an affiliate and an identifier of such an affiliate), and/or information associated with, or based on, the search results. Such information may include, for example, identifiers related to the search results document identifiers or "docIDs"), scores related to the search results information retrieval scores such as dot products of feature vectors corresponding to a query and a document, Page Rank scores, and/or combinations of IR scores and Page Rank scores), snippets of text extracted from identified documents Web pages), full text of identified documents, topics of identified documents, feature vectors of identified documents, etc. Consistent with the present invention, the request may also include end user local time information, such as end user local time information about an end user that submitted a search query, or information from which such local time information can be derived or estimated.
The search engine 220 may combine the search results with one or more of the advertisements provided by the ad server 120/210. This combined information including the search results and advertisement(s) is then forwarded towards the user that submitted the search, for presentation to the user. Preferably, the search results are maintained as distinct from the WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 ads, so as not to confuse the user between paid advertisements and presumably neutral search results.
Finally, the search engine 220 may transmit information about the ad and when end user local time), where geolocation), and/or how the ad was to be rendered position, click-through or not, impression time, impression date, size, conversion or not, etc.) back to the ad server 120/210. Alternatively, or in addition, such information may be provided back to the ad server 120/210 by some other means. Consistent with the present invention, the ad server 120/210 may store ad performance information on the basis of end user local time information.
Finally, the e-mail server 240 may be thought of, generally, as a content server in which a document served is simply an e-mail. Further, e-mail applications (such as Microsoft Outlook for example) may be used to send and/or receive e-mail. Therefore, an e-mail server 240 or application may be thought of as an ad consumer 130. Thus, e-mails may be thought of as documents, and targeted ads may be served in association with such documents. Fur example, one or more ads may be served in, under, over, or otherwise in association with an e-mail.
Although the foregoing examples described servers as requesting ads, and (ii) combining them with content, one or both of these operations may be performed by a client device (such as an end user computer for example).
4.1.2 DEFINITIONS "End user local time information" may include one or more of: at least one local time-of-day; at least one local time-of-day range; at least one local date; at least one local day-of-week; at least one local date range; at least one local day-of-week range; at least one local season; etc.
"Geolocation information" may include information specifying one or more of one or more countries, one or more (inter-country) regions, one or more states, one or more metro areas, one or more cities, one or more towns, one or more boroughs, one or more areas with common zip codes, one or more areas with common telephone area codes, one or more areas served by common cable head end stations, one or more areas served by common network access points or nodes, etc. It may include latitude and/or longitude, or a range thereof. It may include information, such as an IP address, from which a user location can be estimated.
Online ads, such as those used in the exemplary systems described above with reference to Figures 1 and 2, or any other system, may have various intrinsic features. Such features may WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 be specified by an application and/or an advertiser. These features are referred to as "ad features" below. For example, in the case of a text ad, ad features may include a title line, ad text, and an embedded link. In the case of an image ad, ad features may include images, executable code, and an embedded link. Depending on the type of online ad, ad features may include one or more of the following: text, a link, an audio file, a video file, an image file, executable code, embedded information, etc.
When an online ad is served, one or more parameters may be used to describe how, when, and/or where the ad was served. These parameters are referred to as "serving parameters" below. Serving parameters may include, for example, one or more of the following: features of (including information on) a page on which the ad was served, a search query or search results associated with the serving of the ad, a user characteristic their geolocation, the language used by the user, the type of browser used, previous page views, previous behavior), a host or affiliate site America Online, Google, Yahoo) that initiated the request, an absolute position of the ad on the page on which it was served, a position (spatial or temporal) of the ad relative to other ads served, an absolute size of the ad, a size of the ad relative to other ads, a color of the ad, a number of other ads served, types of other ads served, time of day served (absolute or local), time of week served (absolute or local), time of year served (absolute or local), etc. Naturally, there are other serving parameters that may be used in the context of the invention.
Although serving parameters may be extrinsic to ad features, they may be associated with an ad as serving conditions or constraints. When used as serving conditions or constraints, such serving parameters are referred to simply as "serving constraints" (or "targeting criteria").
For example, in some systems, an advertiser may be able to target the serving of its ad by specifying that it is only to be served on weekdays, no lower than a certain position, only to users in a certain geolocation, etc. As another example, in some systems, an advertiser may specify that its ad is to be served only if a page or search query includes certain keywords or phrases. As yet another example, in some systems, an advertiser may specify that its ad is to be served only if a document being served includes certain topics or concepts, or falls under a particular cluster or clusters, or some other classification or classifications.
"Ad information" may include any combination of ad features, ad serving constraints, information derivable from ad features or ad serving constraints (referred to as "ad derived information"), and/or information related to the ad (referred to as "ad related information"), as well as an extension of such information information derived from ad related information).
11 WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 A "document" is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine-readable and machine-storable work product. A document may be a file, a combination of files, one or more files with embedded links to other files, etc. The files may be of any type, such as text, audio, image, video, etc. Parts of a document to be rendered to an end user can be thought of as "content" of the document. A document may include "structured data" containing both content (words, pictures, etc.) and some indication of the meaning of that content (for example, e-mail fields and associated data, HTML tags and associated data, etc.) Ad spots in the document may be defined by embedded information or instructions. In the context of the Internet, a common document is a Web page. Web pages often include content and may include embedded information (such as meta information, hyperlinks, etc.) and/or embedded instructions (such as Javascript, etc.). In many cases, a document has a unique, addressable, storage location and can therefore be uniquely identified by this addressable location. A universal resource locator (URL) is a unique address used to access information on the Internet.
"Document information" may include any information included in the document, information derivable from information included in the document (referred to as "document derived information"), and/or information related to the document (referred to as "document related information"), as well as an extensions of such information information derived from related information). An example of document derived information is a classification based on textual content of a document. Examples of document related information include document information from other documents with links to the instant document, as well as document information from other documents to which the instant document links.
Content from a document may be rendered on a "content rendering application or device". Examples of content rendering applications include an Internet browser Explorer or Netscape), a media player an MP3 player, a Realnetworks streaming audio file player, etc.), a viewer an Abobe Acrobat pdf reader), etc.
A "content owner" is a person or entity that has some property right in the content of a document. A content owner may be an author of the content. In addition, or alternatively, a content owner may have rights to reproduce the content, rights to prepare derivative works of the content, rights to display or perform the content publicly, and/or other proscribed rights in the content. Although a content server might be a content owner in the content of the documents it serves, this is not necessary.
WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 "User information" may include user behavior information and/or user profile information. It may also include a user's local time, or an estimation of the end user's local time.
"E-mail information" may include any information included in an e-mail (also referred to as "internal e-mail infomation"), information derivable from information included in the e-mail and/or information related to the e-mail, as well as extensions of such information information derived from related information). An example of information derived from e-mail information is information extracted or otherwise derived from search results returned in response to a search query composed of termans extracted from an e-mail subject line. Examples of information related to e-mail information include e-mail information about one or more other e-mails sent by the same sender of a given e-mail, or user information about an e-mail recipient.
Information derived from or related to e-mail information may be referred to as "external e-mail information." Various exemplary embodiments of the present invention are now described in 4.2.
4.2 EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS Figure 3 is a bubble diagram illustrating various operations that may be performed by the present invention, and various information that may be used, and/or generated, by the present invention. An ad selection operation 310 may be used to generate a set of ads 340 using ad information 330 and request information 320. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the set of ads 340 may include ads relevant to the request information 320. For example, if the request information 320 is associated with a search query, the ads 340 may be relevant to terms of the search query. Alternatively, if the request information 320 is associated with a document to be served, the ads 340 may be relevant to content of the document. In any event, the request information 320 may include end user local time information. For example, the request information 320 may include the local time of an end user that submitted a search query or document request (or the local time at some other entity, such as a cable head end, a network access point, etc., associated with the request), or information from which such end user local time information can be derived IP address of a requestor device, IP address from IHTTP request, request language, country designated by domain, portal, etc.). For example, end user local time information can be derived from end user geolocation information. Assumptions about end user local time can be made using population densities of various time zones.
13 WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 Exemplary data structures that may be used to store request information 320 and ad information 330 are described in 4.2.1 below with reference to Figures 4 and 5, respectively. Exemplary methods that may be used to perform the ad selection operations 310 in a manner consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2.2 below with reference to Figure 6.
Still referring to Figure 3, a scoring operation 350 may be used to generate a set 360 of ads and associated scores using the first set 340 of ads and ad information 330. The scoring operations 350 in a manner consistent with the present invention may consider end user local time information, such as end user local time performance information, and/or end user local time price information for example, of the ads. Exemplary methods that may be used to perform the scoring operations 350 in a manner consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2.2 below with reference to Figure 7.
Ad modification operations 370 may be used to generate a set 380 of ads with end user local time specific creative content, and/or an end user local time specific landing page from the set 360 of ads. Although not shown, the ad modification operations 370 may use end user local time information. Exemplary methods that may be used to perform the ad modification operations 370 in a manner consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2.2 below with reference to Figure 8.
The ad information 330 may include end user local time-based performance information.
Such information may be provided, and/or tracked by user behavior feedback operations 390.
Exemplary methods that may be used to perform the user behavior feedback operations 390 in a manner consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2.2 below with reference to Figure 9.
Finally, the ad information 330 may include end user local time targeting, and/or end user local time price information. This information may be entered and/or modified by advertisers, or their representatives (simply referred to as "advertisers" without loss of generality) via ad information entry and/or management operations 335. Exemplary methods that may be used to perform these operations 335 in a manner consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2.2 below with reference to Figure The present invention need not provide, and/or use all of the operations and information described with reference to Figure 3. The present invention need not perform the operations in the order shown. Finally, the present invention may combine, or separate functionality described with respect to the various operations. For example, the selection and scoring operations 310 and 350 may be combined into a single operation.
14 WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 4.2.1 EXEMPLARY DATA STRUCTURES Figure 4 illustrates exemplary ad request information 320' that is consistent with the present invention. The ad request information 320' may include information such as that described in 4.1.1 above. Further, the ad request information may include end user (or some other entity, simply referred to as "end user" in the specification) local time information, or information from which end user local time information can be derived or estimated. For example, the end user local time information may include one or more of a local time-of-day, a local day-of-week, a local date, a local month, a local season, etc.
The end user local time information may be encoded in various ways that will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
The present invention may be used to derive or estimate end user local time information from other information. For example, the present invention may use known techniques (such as that used by the "NetAcuity" product from Digital Envoy of Norcross, GA) to map Intemrnet protocol address and/or domain information to end user local time information. As another example, Internet service providers may have many dial-in access servers, each associated with a telephone area code, which may associated with a particular time zone.
Alternatively, the present invention may simply accept end user local time information. For example, the end user, or a client device used by the end user, may have voluntarily provided end user local time information. As another example, the end user local time information may have been derived and provided by a third party.
Figure 5 illustrates exemplary ad information 330' that is consistent with the present invention. The ad information 330' may include information such as that described in 4.1.1 above. For example, the ad information 330' may include a unique ad identifier, ad creative content (or a pointer to such creative content), and/or a landing page link, etc. Further, the exemplary ad information 330' may include at least one of end user local time targeting information and end user local time price information. End user local time performance information (not shown) may be tracked and associated with the ad.
End user local time targeting information may include one or more of a range of) local time-of-day, a range of) local day-of-week, a range of) local date, a range of) local month, a local season, etc. Thus, for example, a national shipping company may target ads touting pickup until midnight for next day delivery for local time-of-day ranging from 7:30 WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 PM to 11:55 PM, while targeting ads touting discounted shipping for local time-of-day ranging from 12:00 midnight to 7:29 PM.
End user local time price information may include price information for each of one or more a range of) local time-of-day, one or more a range of) local day-of-week, one or more a range of) local date, one or more local a range of) month, one or more local season, etc. The price information should correspond to the end user local time targeting information. In one embodiment of the present invention, an advertiser-specified or system-learned matrix (with time-slots (or time ranges) in one direction and ad targets keywords or concepts) in the other direction) of price information may be provided. The matrix may include price information for some or all combinations of times and targets. The price information in this matrix may be used in the determination of scores of competing (relevant) ads.
In one embodiment of the present invention, end user local time targeting information can be inferred from end user local time price information. For example, if an advertiser submits a maximum bid per impression of 1.50 for the local time of day from 7:30 PM to 11:55 PM, it may be assumed that the advertiser wants to target its ads to end users whose local time is 7:30 PM to 11:55 PM. Similarly, if the advertiser submits a bid per impression of 0.00 for a given local day of the week, it may be assumed that the advertiser wants to avoid serving its ads to end users with that local day of the week. For example, if the courier introduced above has no pickup on Sunday, it can provide the following geolocation price information: Local Time of Day: 7:30 PM-11:55 PM: $1.50/impression; Local Time of Day: 12 midnight-7:29 PM $0.35/impression; and Local Day: Sunday $0.00/impression.
Any contention that may arise may be resolved using non-ambiguous rules. For example, one such rule may be the lower-price information overrides any other pricing information.
Alternatively, the highest price may be used. These rules may be default rules, applied across all advertises, or may be advertiser specific rules. In the later case, an advertiser user interface may alert advertisers to any potential contentions and prompt them for a rule to resolve it.
WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 4.2.2 EXEMPLARY METHODS Figure 6 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method 310' for performing an ad selection operation 310 in a manner consistent with the present invention. Request information and ad information is accepted. (Block 610) The request information may include, among other things, end user local time information. The advertising information may include, among other things, end user local time targeting information. As indicated by loop 620-640, an act is performed for each of one or more ads. More specifically, a relevancy measure of the ad is determined using at least the end user local time information associated with the request information and end user local time targeting information associated with the ad. (Block 630) After each of the one or more ads has been processed, the method 310' is left. (Node 650) The relevancy of the ad may be determined using keyword targeting information associated with the ad, content relevance information associated with the ad, etc. In any event, the relevancy of the ad may be determined using, at least, end user local time information of the request and the ad.
Naturally, end user local time targeting may be just one of a number of relevancy factors.
For example, ad relevancy may also consider a comparison of ad relevancy information to the content of a document requested, ad keyword targeting with respect to terms of a search query, user demographic information, user behavior information, other location targeting information, etc.
Figure 7 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method 350' for performing a scoring operation 350 in a manner consistent with the present invention. The second score may be used to determine a relative presentation attribute size, position, color, volume, etc.) of the ad.
Ad information of candidate ads is accepted. (Block 710) As indicated by loop 720-740, an act is performed for each of one or more ads. More specifically, an ad score is determined using at least one of price information, end user local time price information (if available), performance information, and end user local time performance information (if available). (Block 730) For example, techniques for determining a score using performance information, such as those described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 10/112,656 (incorporated herein by reference), titled "METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR ORDERING ADVERTISEMENTS BASED ON PERFORMANCE INFORMATION," filed on March 29, 2002, may be modified in accordance with the present invention. Similarly, techniques for determining a score using performance information and price information, such as those described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
17 WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 10/11,654 (incorporated herein by reference), titled "METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR ORDERING ADVERTISEMENTS BASED ON PERFORMANCE INFORMATION AND PRICE INFORMATION," filed on March 29, 2002, may be modified in accordance with the present invention. Further, techniques for determining a score using price information without performance information may be modified in accordance with the present invention. Thus, for example, in accordance with the present invention, an ad score (which may be used in an ad attribute arbitration, such as a position auction for example) may be determined using any of the following combinations of information: local time of interest price information; local time of interest performance information; local time of interest price information and performance information; local time of interest price information and local time of interest performance information; and price information and local time of interest performance information. Naturally, the score may be determined using additional information, such as some measure of advertiser quality for example. If neither local time of interest price information, nor local time of interest performance information is available for an ad, its score may simply be a function of any of the following combinations of information: price information; (b) performance information; and price information and performance information. In the foregoing examples, the local time of interest may be end user local time. Once all of the candidate ads are processed, the method 350' is left. (Node 750) There are a number of ways to determine an ad score consistent with block 730. A few exemplary ways are described below. If an ad system wants to maximize revenue, it may determine a score by multiplying a price per performance value by the performance of the ad.
For example, it may determine cost per click click-through rate, or cost per conversion conversion rate. Prices may be discounted or adjusted. The present invention can advantageously use end user local time information, if available, to improve a revenue estimate.
For example, suppose the local time (pacific standard time) of an end user to whom the ad will be directed is 10:30 PM. Suppose further that the following otherwise equally relevant ads have the associated information shown: Ad A: max cost per click $0.25; max cost per click $1.50 for local time-of-day from 7:30 PM-11:55 PM; CTR 0.02 for local time-of-day ranges 12 midnight to I AM; CTR 0.01 for local time-of-day ranges 1 AM-2 AM, WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 2 AM-3 AM, 3 AM-4 AM, 4 AM-5 AM, 5 AM-6 AM; CTR 0.02 for local time-of-day ranges 6 AM-7 AM, 7 AM-8 AM; CTR 0.03 for local time-of-day ranges 8:00 AM-9:00 AM; CRT 0.04 for local time-of-day ranges 9:00 AM-10:00 AM, 10:00 AM-11:00 AM, 11:00 AM-12 noon, 12 noon-l:00 PM, 1:00 PM-2:00 PM, 2:00 PM-3:00 PM; CTR 0.055 for local time-of-day ranges 3:00 PM-4:00 PM, 4:00 PM- 5:00PM, 5:00 PM-6:00 PM; CTR 0.110 for local time-of-day range 6:00 PM-7:00 PM; CTR 0.250 for local time-of-day range 7:00 PM-8:00 PM; CRT 0.500 for local time-of-day ranges 8:00 PM-9:00 PM, 9:00 PM- 10:00 PM, 10:00 PM-11:00 PM; and CRT 0.550 for local time-of-day range 11:00 PM-12 midnight.
Ad B: max cost per click $0.50; CTR 0.07 for all local time-of-day ranges.
With end user local time scoring, for the end user whose local time is 10:30 PM a product score for ad A would be 0.75 while that for ad B would be 0.035 (=0.50 *0.07).
Suppose another end user on the east coast submits an identical request at the identical absolute time 1:30 AM EST. For this end user, the product score for ad A would be 0.0025 while that for ad B would remain 0.035 Thus, for this example, at the particular absolute time, ad A is much more useful than ad B to a user on the west coast, while the reverse is true for a user on the east coast.
As illustrated in this example, the (i)_end user local time (range) performance information, (ii) end user local time (range) price information, and (iii) the end user local time (range) targeting information need not correspond with one another. For example, end user local time targeting price information may correspond to a five minute range, while end user local time, time-of-day performance information may be tracked in six-four hour intervals.
In one embodiment of the present invention, if more specific end user local time price information is not available, more general end user local time price information may be used in the determination of a score. Similarly, if more specific end user local time performance 19 WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 information is not available, more general end user local time performance information may be used. Thus, for example, an ad with only price information and performance information for end user local time range 1:00 PM-1 I:00PM may compete with an ad with price and performance information for end user local time range 4:00 PM-5:00 PM when serving an ad request to a user whose local time is 4:30PM.
Figure 8 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method 370' for performing an ad modification operation 370 in a manner consistent with the present invention. Ad information and/or request end user local time information is accepted. (Block 810) Request end user local time information may be provided in the creative content of the ad, and/or the ad may be provided with end user local time-dependent content one of a number of candidate ad marketing messages may be selected using end user local time information). (Block 820) Alternatively, or in addition, request end user local time information may be provided in the content of a landing page, and/or end user local time-dependent content may be provided in the ad landing page one of a number of candidate landing pages may be selected using end user local time information). (Block 830) Referring back to block 820, the content of an ad creative may be modified by modifying text or by selecting one of a number of candidate texts. For example, assume that an ad request indicated that the end user' local time is 8:00 PM, and assume that an ad for a courier was targeted to the local time range 7:30 PM-11:55 PM. The normal ad creative may read, "Reliable Courier Service, Nationwide all at competitive prices." The modified ad creative may read, "Pickup for next day delivery until MIDNIGHT available." The end user local time information may simply be added to, or replace a portion of, the ad creative. For example, "It's 8:00 PM! Will your courier pick up today? We WILL!" The end user local time information may be used to select a number of candidate ad creatives.
Referring back to block 830, the one of a plurality of ad landing pages may be selected based on end user local time information. For example, if the end user local time information of the request indicates that the end user's time is between 7:30 PM and 11:55 PM, the courier may have a landing page emphasizing its pickup until midnight service. If, on the other hand, the end user local time information of the request indicates that the end user's local time is outside this time range, the courier may have a landing page emphasizing its discount shipping.
Alternatively, or in addition to generating creative content targeted towards a specific end user local time, advertisement attributes may be determined using end user local time WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 information. For example, prices, products, and/or services may be specific to an end user's local time.
Thus, by using end user local time information, the present invention can be used to adapt a marketing message to the local time of an end user to perceive the ad.
Figure 9 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method 390' for performing user behavior feedback operation 390 in a manner consistent with the present invention. Recall from scoring operation 350 that end user local time specific performance information may be used in determining a score for an ad. The method 390' of Figure 9 is one way to track such information. Each time an ad is served, this event may be identified by a unique process identifier ad server IP address, a (local) date and a (local) time of day). The process identifier may be associated with any end user local time information used when serving the ad, or end user local time information of the relevant request. The ad may be served with its process identifier. (Block 910) As indicated by event block 920, different branches of the method 390' may be performed in response to different events. For example, if user behavior information is received, the received user behavior information is associated with the process identifier (and therefore the end user local time information, if any, used when originally serving the ad) (Block 930) before the method 390' branches back to event block 920. If a condition for updating performance information is met the receipt of performance information, the receipt of a certain amount of performance information, a time expiration since the last update, an absolute time/date, etc), the ad performance information is updated considering end user local time targeting information, or end user local time request information associated with the ad serving process (Block 940), before the method 390' branches back to event block 920.
Thus, the method 390' can be used to track ad performance information accounting for end user local time information (which may have been used when serving the ad). Various alternative ways of associating end user local time information with performance information are possible.
Figure 10 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method 335' of performing ad information entry and/or management operations in a manner consistent with the present invention. Recall from Figure 5 that ad information 330' may include one or more of end user local time targeting information and end user local time price information. The method 330' accepts authorized and/or authenticated user input. (Block 1010) As indicated by event block 1020, various branches of the method 335' may be performed in response to various input types. If the user inputs end user local time price information, such information is added or updated. (Block WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 1030) Associated end user local time targeting information may also be populated or revised in accordance with the price information. (Block 1040) For example, if a user enters a maximum price per click of $1.50 for local time 7:30 PM-11:55 PM, and if the ad does not include end user local time targeting for this time range, such information may be added. If the user later changes this maximum price per click for this time range to $0.00, the end user local time location targeting for this time range may be turned off or removed. Referring back to block 1020, if the user inputs end user local time targeting information, the end user local time targeting information is added or updated. (Block 1050) Associated end user local time price information may be requested (Block 1060) but need not be provided.
Other features of the advertiser user interface may be provided to make entering and/or managing advertising information more convenient. For example, if any advertiser has an existing campaign, but wants to add an end user local time targeted campaign, bulk importing support may be provided so that the advertiser does not need to re-enter common advertising information. Help features may be used to suggest additional end user local time information (more of the same type of ranges local time of day, local day of week, local date, local month, etc.), more specific ranges, more general ranges, etc.) in response to entered end user local time information. As another example, a U/I, such as a series of sliders for example, may be provided to allow advertises to manually increase or decrease relative bid amounts based on the local time-of-day, local day-of-week, etc. The U/I can allow advertisers to select automated pricing tools. For example, a process can use selection and/or conversion tracking data to automatically raise price information when selections/conversions are high and lower price information when selections/conversions are low.
The advertiser U/I may also provide information ad performance) filtered using end user local time.
The end user local time targeting information may be applied on a keyword-by-keyword basis (or topic-by-topic, or concept-by-concept basis). Alternatively, the end user local time targeting information may be applied across all keywords (or topics, or concepts) targeted in an ad campaign.
4.2.3 EXEMPLARY APPARATUS Figure 11 is high-level block diagram of a machine 1100 that may perform one or more of the operations discussed above. The machine 1100 basically includes one or more processors WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 1110, one or more input/output interface units 1130, one or more storage devices 1120, and one or more system buses and/or networks 1140 for facilitating the communication of information among the coupled elements. One or more input devices 1132 and one or more output devices 1134 may be coupled with the one or more input/output interfaces 1130.
The one or more processors 1110 may execute machine-executable instructions C or running on the Solaris operating system available from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto, California or the Linux operating system widely available from a number of vendors such as Red Hat, Inc. of Durham, North Carolina) to effect one or more aspects of the present invention. At least a portion of the machine executable instructions may be stored (temporarily or more permanently) on the one or more storage devices 1120 and/or may be received from an external source via one or more input interface units 1130.
In one embodiment, the machine 1100 may be one or more conventional personal computers. In this case, the processing units 1110 may be one or more microprocessors. The bus 1140 may include a system bus. The storage devices 1120 may include system memory, such as read only memory (ROM) and/or random access memory (RAM). The storage devices 1120 may also include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk, a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable) magnetic disk, and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable (magneto-) optical disk such as a compact disk or other (magneto-) optical media.
A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer through input devices 1132, such as a keyboard and pointing device a mouse) for example. Other input devices such as a microphone, a joystick, a game pad, a satellite dish, a scanner, or the like, may also (or alternatively) be included. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit(s) 1110 through an appropriate interface 1130 coupled to the system bus 1140.
The output devices 1134 may include a monitor or other type of display device, which may also be connected to the system bus 1140 via an appropriate interface. In addition to (or instead of) the monitor, the personal computer may include other (peripheral) output devices (not shown), such as speakers and printers for example.
WO 2005/034064 PCTIUS2004/031707 4.2.4 ALTERNATIVES Although the foregoing examples used end user local time-of-day information, the present invention may also use end user day-of-week information, end user date information, end user season information, etc.
Different end user local time information specified by the advertiser may have different scope, and this may lead to contention regarding which targeting or price information to use.
For example, an advertiser may be willing to pay $1.50 per click for ads targeted to local user time of day range of 7:30 PM- 11:55 PM, but may not be willing to pay anything per click for ads targeted to Sunday. The question then arises of how to handle an ad request with an end user local time of Sunday, 9:00 PM. As discussed above, such contentions may be resolved using default rules. An exemplary set of default rules is now described. Generally, for purposes of determining ad relevancy and/or ad scoring, a match of more general end user local time information category may be weighted more heavily than a match of more specific user local time information category day-of-week trumps time-of-day). On the other hand, within a category of end user local time information, for purposes of determining ad relevancy and/or ad scoring, a match of a more specific user local time information range may be weighted more heavily than a match of a more general user local information range a time of day range of 10:30 AM- 1:45 AM would trump a time of day range of all AM).
A visual representation of a time-slot (or time-range) and target matrix with entries of price information, such as the matrix described in 4.2.1 above, may be used to provide visual feedback to advertisers. The visual representation may include color coding. Such visual feedback may help advertisers to avoid any contention regarding time-slots (or time ranges) for a given target. Even if simple rules are used to specify price information, providing such a visual representation may be useful to the advertiser.
Although some examples above used end user local time information as a current local time of the user, the local time information may be the local time of a location that the user is interested in. Either case may be referred to as a "local time of interest." For example, if a business traveler in a first time zone lacks Internet connectivity and asks their assistant, located in a second time zone, to look for restaurants the first time zone, and if a search query includes a town in the first time zone, the end user local time may be assumed to be that of the first time zone even though the search query was originated from the second time zone. Similarly, WO 2005/034064 PCT/US2004/031707 information from which local time can be derived or estimated may also be referred to as "local time of interest information." 4.3 CONCLUSIONS In view of the foregoing, the present invention allows more relevant ads to be served by using end user local time information.
Claims (16)
1. A method for determining a relevancy of an ad to a request, the method comprising: 0 Z a) accepting local time of interest information associated with the request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) comparing the accepted local time of interest information associated with the request with local time of interest targeting information associated with the ad and comparing a keyword associated with the ad and the search term to generate a comparison; and c) determining the relevancy of the ad using at least the comparison.
2. A method for determining a score of an ad, the method comprising: a) accepting local time of interest information associated with a request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) determining whether the ad has local time of interest price information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted; and c) if it is determined that the ad has local time of interest price information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted, then determining the score using at least the local time of interest price information and a comparison ofa keyword associated with the ad and the search term.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the local time of interest information includes at least one of(a) at least one local time-of-day, at least one local time-of-day range, at least one local date, at least one local day-of-week, at least one local date range, at least one local day-of-week range, and at least one local season.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least ad performance information. The method of claim 2 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least local time of interest ad performance information.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein the local time of interest information is end user local time information. 00 S 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the end user local time information includes at least one of(a) at 0 Z least one local time-of-day, at least one local time-of-day range, at least one local date, at least one local day-of-week, at least one local date range, at least one local day-of-week Srange, and at least one local season. S 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least ad performance S information.
9. The method of claim 6 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least end user local time ad performance information. A method for determining a score of an ad, the method comprising: a) accepting local time of interest information associated with a request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) determining whether the ad has local time of interest performance information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted; and c) if it is determined that the ad has local time of interest performance information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted, then determining the score using at least the local time of interest performance information and a comparison of a keyword associated with the ad and the search term.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the local time of interest information includes at least one of (a) at least one local time-of-day, at least one local time-of-day range, at least one local date, (d) at least one local day-of-week, at least one local date range, at least one local day-of-week range, and at least one local season.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least ad price information.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least local time of interest ad price information. 00
14. The method of claim 10 wherein the local time of interest information is end user local time 0 Z information. i 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the end user local time information includes at least one of(a) at least one local time-of-day, at least one local time-of-day range, at least one local date, (d) S at least one local day-of-week, at least one local date range, at least one local day-of-week range, and at least one local season.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least ad price information.
17. The method of claim 14 wherein the act of determining a score further uses at least end user local time ad price information.
18. Apparatus for determining a relevancy of an ad to a request, the apparatus comprising: a) an input for accepting local time of interest information associated with the request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) means for comparing the accepted local time of interest information associated with the request with local time of interest targeting information associated with the ad and comparing a keyword associated with the ad and the search term to generate a comparison; and c) means for determining the relevancy of the ad using at least the comparison.
19. Apparatus for determining a score of an ad, the apparatus comprising: a) an input for accepting local time of interest information associated with a request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) means for determining whether the ad has local time of interest price information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted; and c) means for determining the score using at least the local time of interest price information and a comparison of a keyword associated with the ad and the search term if it is determined that the ad has local time of interest price information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted. 00 The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the local time of interest information includes at least one of at least one local time-of-day, at least one local time-of-day range, at least one local date, S(a) at least one local daytime-of-wedaye, at least one local datime-of-day range, at least one local day-of-week at least one local day-of-week, at least one local date range, at least one local day-of-week range, and at least one local season.
21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the means for determining a score further uses at least ad S performance information.
22. Apparatus for determining a score of an ad, the apparatus comprising: a) an input for accepting local time of interest information associated with a request, wherein the request includes a search term; b) means for determining whether the ad has local time of interest performance information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted; and c) means for determining the score using at least the local time of interest performance information and a comparison of a keyword associated with the ad and the search term if it is determined that the ad has local time of interest performance information corresponding to the local time of interest information accepted. Dated 24 November, 2008 Google, Inc. Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person SPRUSON FERGUSON
Priority Applications (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
AU2009201373A AU2009201373B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2009-04-08 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US10/676,369 US8560493B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2003-10-01 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
US10/676,369 | 2003-10-01 | ||
PCT/US2004/031707 WO2005034064A2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2004-09-27 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
Related Child Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
AU2009201373A Division AU2009201373B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2009-04-08 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
AU2004279071A1 AU2004279071A1 (en) | 2005-04-14 |
AU2004279071B2 true AU2004279071B2 (en) | 2009-01-08 |
Family
ID=34393573
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
AU2004279071A Active AU2004279071B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2004-09-27 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
AU2009201373A Active AU2009201373B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2009-04-08 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
Family Applications After (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
AU2009201373A Active AU2009201373B2 (en) | 2003-10-01 | 2009-04-08 | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system |
Country Status (9)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US8560493B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP1676252A4 (en) |
JP (1) | JP2007507752A (en) |
KR (1) | KR20060080243A (en) |
CN (1) | CN1926564A (en) |
AU (2) | AU2004279071B2 (en) |
BR (1) | BRPI0415037B1 (en) |
CA (1) | CA2540821C (en) |
WO (1) | WO2005034064A2 (en) |
Families Citing this family (115)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US8590013B2 (en) | 2002-02-25 | 2013-11-19 | C. S. Lee Crawford | Method of managing and communicating data pertaining to software applications for processor-based devices comprising wireless communication circuitry |
US7693830B2 (en) * | 2005-08-10 | 2010-04-06 | Google Inc. | Programmable search engine |
US7716199B2 (en) * | 2005-08-10 | 2010-05-11 | Google Inc. | Aggregating context data for programmable search engines |
US7743045B2 (en) * | 2005-08-10 | 2010-06-22 | Google Inc. | Detecting spam related and biased contexts for programmable search engines |
US20070038614A1 (en) * | 2005-08-10 | 2007-02-15 | Guha Ramanathan V | Generating and presenting advertisements based on context data for programmable search engines |
US7346606B2 (en) * | 2003-06-30 | 2008-03-18 | Google, Inc. | Rendering advertisements with documents having one or more topics using user topic interest |
US7930206B2 (en) | 2003-11-03 | 2011-04-19 | Google Inc. | System and method for enabling an advertisement to follow the user to additional web pages |
US7523087B1 (en) * | 2003-12-31 | 2009-04-21 | Google, Inc. | Determining and/or designating better ad information such as ad landing pages |
CN101006726A (en) * | 2004-06-24 | 2007-07-25 | 韩国电子通信研究院 | Extended description to support targeting scheme, and TV anytime service and system employing the same |
US7904337B2 (en) | 2004-10-19 | 2011-03-08 | Steve Morsa | Match engine marketing |
US20060259469A1 (en) * | 2005-05-12 | 2006-11-16 | Fu-Sheng Chiu | Intelligent adaptive programming based on collected dynamic market data and user feedback |
US20060265501A1 (en) | 2005-05-20 | 2006-11-23 | Anchorfree Wireless | System and method for enabling wireless internet access in public areas |
US9626683B2 (en) * | 2005-05-20 | 2017-04-18 | Anchorfree, Inc. | Method and system for advanced messaging |
US20070078718A1 (en) * | 2005-05-20 | 2007-04-05 | Anchorfree, Inc. | System and method for monetizing internet usage |
US7647305B2 (en) * | 2005-11-30 | 2010-01-12 | Anchorfree, Inc. | Method and apparatus for implementing search engine with cost per action revenue model |
US20060265283A1 (en) * | 2005-05-20 | 2006-11-23 | Anchorfree, Inc. | System and method for monetizing internet usage |
US20060293962A1 (en) * | 2005-05-20 | 2006-12-28 | Anchorfree, Inc. | Computerized networking device with embedded advanced content and web traffic monetization functionality |
US7747619B2 (en) * | 2005-11-30 | 2010-06-29 | Anchorfree, Inc. | Computerized system and method for advanced advertising |
US20060271426A1 (en) * | 2005-05-31 | 2006-11-30 | Microsoft Corporation | Posted price market for online search and content advertisements |
US20060271389A1 (en) * | 2005-05-31 | 2006-11-30 | Microsoft Corporation | Pay per percentage of impressions |
US8548974B2 (en) * | 2005-07-25 | 2013-10-01 | The Boeing Company | Apparatus and methods for providing geographically oriented internet search results to mobile users |
US8805339B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-08-12 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Categorization of a mobile user profile based on browse and viewing behavior |
US20070061303A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-03-15 | Jorey Ramer | Mobile search result clustering |
US8195133B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-06-05 | Jumptap, Inc. | Mobile dynamic advertisement creation and placement |
US20080215623A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2008-09-04 | Jorey Ramer | Mobile communication facility usage and social network creation |
US8229914B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-07-24 | Jumptap, Inc. | Mobile content spidering and compatibility determination |
US10038756B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2018-07-31 | Millenial Media LLC | Managing sponsored content based on device characteristics |
US20070168354A1 (en) * | 2005-11-01 | 2007-07-19 | Jorey Ramer | Combined algorithmic and editorial-reviewed mobile content search results |
US8433297B2 (en) | 2005-11-05 | 2013-04-30 | Jumptag, Inc. | System for targeting advertising content to a plurality of mobile communication facilities |
US8666376B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-03-04 | Millennial Media | Location based mobile shopping affinity program |
US7577665B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2009-08-18 | Jumptap, Inc. | User characteristic influenced search results |
US8290810B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-10-16 | Jumptap, Inc. | Realtime surveying within mobile sponsored content |
US7676394B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2010-03-09 | Jumptap, Inc. | Dynamic bidding and expected value |
US20070061242A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-03-15 | Jorey Ramer | Implicit searching for mobile content |
US7660581B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2010-02-09 | Jumptap, Inc. | Managing sponsored content based on usage history |
US20070073719A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-03-29 | Jorey Ramer | Physical navigation of a mobile search application |
US8131271B2 (en) | 2005-11-05 | 2012-03-06 | Jumptap, Inc. | Categorization of a mobile user profile based on browse behavior |
US8812526B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-08-19 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Mobile content cross-inventory yield optimization |
US8209344B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-06-26 | Jumptap, Inc. | Embedding sponsored content in mobile applications |
US8311888B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-11-13 | Jumptap, Inc. | Revenue models associated with syndication of a behavioral profile using a monetization platform |
US8103545B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-01-24 | Jumptap, Inc. | Managing payment for sponsored content presented to mobile communication facilities |
US9471925B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2016-10-18 | Millennial Media Llc | Increasing mobile interactivity |
US7752209B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2010-07-06 | Jumptap, Inc. | Presenting sponsored content on a mobile communication facility |
US9076175B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2015-07-07 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Mobile comparison shopping |
US10592930B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2020-03-17 | Millenial Media, LLC | Syndication of a behavioral profile using a monetization platform |
US8238888B2 (en) | 2006-09-13 | 2012-08-07 | Jumptap, Inc. | Methods and systems for mobile coupon placement |
US7702318B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2010-04-20 | Jumptap, Inc. | Presentation of sponsored content based on mobile transaction event |
US9703892B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2017-07-11 | Millennial Media Llc | Predictive text completion for a mobile communication facility |
US8364521B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2013-01-29 | Jumptap, Inc. | Rendering targeted advertisement on mobile communication facilities |
US8660891B2 (en) | 2005-11-01 | 2014-02-25 | Millennial Media | Interactive mobile advertisement banners |
US8615719B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2013-12-24 | Jumptap, Inc. | Managing sponsored content for delivery to mobile communication facilities |
US9201979B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2015-12-01 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Syndication of a behavioral profile associated with an availability condition using a monetization platform |
US7769764B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2010-08-03 | Jumptap, Inc. | Mobile advertisement syndication |
US7603360B2 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2009-10-13 | Jumptap, Inc. | Location influenced search results |
US8989718B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2015-03-24 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Idle screen advertising |
US20070100650A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-05-03 | Jorey Ramer | Action functionality for mobile content search results |
US8302030B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-10-30 | Jumptap, Inc. | Management of multiple advertising inventories using a monetization platform |
US7860871B2 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2010-12-28 | Jumptap, Inc. | User history influenced search results |
US8503995B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2013-08-06 | Jumptap, Inc. | Mobile dynamic advertisement creation and placement |
US20070100651A1 (en) * | 2005-11-01 | 2007-05-03 | Jorey Ramer | Mobile payment facilitation |
US8819659B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-08-26 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Mobile search service instant activation |
US20070061334A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-03-15 | Jorey Ramer | Search query address redirection on a mobile communication facility |
US8832100B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-09-09 | Millennial Media, Inc. | User transaction history influenced search results |
US20110313853A1 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2011-12-22 | Jorey Ramer | System for targeting advertising content to a plurality of mobile communication facilities |
US10911894B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2021-02-02 | Verizon Media Inc. | Use of dynamic content generation parameters based on previous performance of those parameters |
US20070100805A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-05-03 | Jorey Ramer | Mobile content cross-inventory yield optimization |
US9058406B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2015-06-16 | Millennial Media, Inc. | Management of multiple advertising inventories using a monetization platform |
US8027879B2 (en) | 2005-11-05 | 2011-09-27 | Jumptap, Inc. | Exclusivity bidding for mobile sponsored content |
US7912458B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2011-03-22 | Jumptap, Inc. | Interaction analysis and prioritization of mobile content |
US20070198485A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-08-23 | Jorey Ramer | Mobile search service discovery |
US8364540B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2013-01-29 | Jumptap, Inc. | Contextual targeting of content using a monetization platform |
US8156128B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2012-04-10 | Jumptap, Inc. | Contextual mobile content placement on a mobile communication facility |
US8688671B2 (en) | 2005-09-14 | 2014-04-01 | Millennial Media | Managing sponsored content based on geographic region |
US7783632B2 (en) * | 2005-11-03 | 2010-08-24 | Microsoft Corporation | Using popularity data for ranking |
US8175585B2 (en) * | 2005-11-05 | 2012-05-08 | Jumptap, Inc. | System for targeting advertising content to a plurality of mobile communication facilities |
US8571999B2 (en) | 2005-11-14 | 2013-10-29 | C. S. Lee Crawford | Method of conducting operations for a social network application including activity list generation |
US7971137B2 (en) * | 2005-12-14 | 2011-06-28 | Google Inc. | Detecting and rejecting annoying documents |
US7682961B2 (en) * | 2006-06-08 | 2010-03-23 | International Business Machines Corporation | Methods of forming solder connections and structure thereof |
US20070300215A1 (en) * | 2006-06-26 | 2007-12-27 | Bardsley Jeffrey S | Methods, systems, and computer program products for obtaining and utilizing a score indicative of an overall performance effect of a software update on a software host |
JP4939859B2 (en) * | 2006-07-13 | 2012-05-30 | 日本電信電話株式会社 | Advertisement insertion type video distribution system |
US20100191600A1 (en) * | 2006-08-10 | 2010-07-29 | Gil Sideman | System and method for targeted auctioning of available slots in a delivery network |
KR100728936B1 (en) * | 2006-08-14 | 2007-06-15 | 온오프코리아 주식회사 | System for fixing advertisement rates and method for selecting advertisement rates using the same |
US20090298514A1 (en) | 2006-09-14 | 2009-12-03 | Shah Ullah | Real world behavior measurement using identifiers specific to mobile devices |
US20080108308A1 (en) * | 2006-09-14 | 2008-05-08 | Shah Ullah | Methods and systems for using mobile device specific identifiers and short-distance wireless protocols to manage, secure and target content |
US20080133327A1 (en) * | 2006-09-14 | 2008-06-05 | Shah Ullah | Methods and systems for securing content played on mobile devices |
US9445353B2 (en) | 2006-09-14 | 2016-09-13 | Omnitrail Technologies Inc. | Presence platform for passive radio access network-to-radio access network device transition |
US20080220760A1 (en) * | 2006-09-14 | 2008-09-11 | Shah Ullah | Methods and systems for usage profiling associated with device specific identifiers |
US20080109888A1 (en) * | 2006-09-14 | 2008-05-08 | Shah Ullah | Methods and systems for securing content projected to a nearby device |
US20080104049A1 (en) * | 2006-10-25 | 2008-05-01 | Microsoft Corporation | Document ranking utilizing parameter varying data |
US8898131B1 (en) | 2007-02-14 | 2014-11-25 | SuperMedia LLC | Click-through rate adjustments |
US20080215418A1 (en) * | 2007-03-02 | 2008-09-04 | Adready, Inc. | Modification of advertisement campaign elements based on heuristics and real time feedback |
KR100913475B1 (en) * | 2007-03-30 | 2009-08-25 | 엔에이치엔비즈니스플랫폼 주식회사 | Method and system for advertisement integrated management about plural advertisement domains |
US20080275772A1 (en) * | 2007-05-01 | 2008-11-06 | At&T Knowledge Ventures, Lp | System and method of facilitating targeted content delivery |
WO2009030972A1 (en) * | 2007-09-06 | 2009-03-12 | Chin San Sathya Wong | Method and system of generating and presenting search results |
US8265990B2 (en) * | 2008-05-15 | 2012-09-11 | Utrom Processing Co. L.L.C. | Method and system for selecting and delivering media content via the internet |
CN101599155B (en) * | 2008-06-03 | 2013-12-18 | 华为技术有限公司 | Treatment method, system and device for launching advertisement |
US9390180B1 (en) | 2008-09-04 | 2016-07-12 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Landing page selection for linked advertising |
US8301649B1 (en) | 2008-09-04 | 2012-10-30 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Dynamic categorizations for electronic advertising |
US9715553B1 (en) | 2010-06-18 | 2017-07-25 | Google Inc. | Point of interest retrieval |
US9194716B1 (en) | 2010-06-18 | 2015-11-24 | Google Inc. | Point of interest category ranking |
US9275154B2 (en) | 2010-06-18 | 2016-03-01 | Google Inc. | Context-sensitive point of interest retrieval |
US8645209B2 (en) * | 2010-12-14 | 2014-02-04 | Yellowpages.Com Llc | Real time user activity-driven targeted advertising system |
US9009065B2 (en) * | 2010-12-17 | 2015-04-14 | Google Inc. | Promoting content from an activity stream |
US8442500B2 (en) * | 2011-06-21 | 2013-05-14 | Qualcomm Incorporated | Relevant content delivery |
KR101756218B1 (en) | 2011-09-13 | 2017-07-26 | 인텔 코포레이션 | Digital advertising system |
US9633122B2 (en) * | 2011-10-20 | 2017-04-25 | Aol Inc. | Systems and methods for web site customization based on time-of-day |
US9613014B2 (en) * | 2012-03-09 | 2017-04-04 | AgileQR, Inc. | Systems and methods for personalization and engagement by passive connection |
US20140324604A1 (en) * | 2013-04-29 | 2014-10-30 | Yahoo! Inc. | System and method for producing proposed online advertisements from pre-existing advertising creatives |
US9460451B2 (en) | 2013-07-01 | 2016-10-04 | Yahoo! Inc. | Quality scoring system for advertisements and content in an online system |
US10134053B2 (en) | 2013-11-19 | 2018-11-20 | Excalibur Ip, Llc | User engagement-based contextually-dependent automated pricing for non-guaranteed delivery |
CN105678586B (en) | 2016-01-12 | 2020-09-29 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Information supporting method and device |
JP6600422B2 (en) * | 2017-01-18 | 2019-10-30 | 楽天株式会社 | Information processing apparatus, information processing method, program, and storage medium |
US10341164B2 (en) | 2017-05-09 | 2019-07-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | Modifying computer configuration to improve performance |
US20220198510A1 (en) * | 2020-12-18 | 2022-06-23 | Maarten Bos | Timing advertising to user receptivity |
US11556358B2 (en) * | 2021-02-26 | 2023-01-17 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Personalized virtual lobby in a meeting application |
Citations (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US6332127B1 (en) * | 1999-01-28 | 2001-12-18 | International Business Machines Corporation | Systems, methods and computer program products for providing time and location specific advertising via the internet |
Family Cites Families (23)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US5933811A (en) * | 1996-08-20 | 1999-08-03 | Paul D. Angles | System and method for delivering customized advertisements within interactive communication systems |
US5948061A (en) * | 1996-10-29 | 1999-09-07 | Double Click, Inc. | Method of delivery, targeting, and measuring advertising over networks |
US20020044067A1 (en) * | 1996-10-31 | 2002-04-18 | Technical Visions, Inc. | Message delivery based upon geographical and temporal parameters |
US6285999B1 (en) | 1997-01-10 | 2001-09-04 | The Board Of Trustees Of The Leland Stanford Junior University | Method for node ranking in a linked database |
JP3389948B2 (en) | 1998-11-27 | 2003-03-24 | 日本電気株式会社 | Display ad selection system |
US6668353B1 (en) * | 1999-03-25 | 2003-12-23 | Lucent Technologies Inc. | Space/time portals for computer systems |
CA2299758A1 (en) | 1999-09-09 | 2001-03-09 | Netzero, Inc. | Dynamic ad targeting by an internet server |
SE522917C2 (en) * | 1999-09-10 | 2004-03-16 | Ericsson Telefon Ab L M | Mobile communication system which enables position-associated messages |
US6819919B1 (en) * | 1999-10-29 | 2004-11-16 | Telcontar | Method for providing matching and introduction services to proximate mobile users and service providers |
US6343317B1 (en) * | 1999-12-29 | 2002-01-29 | Harry A. Glorikian | Internet system for connecting client-travelers with geographically-associated data |
US6526335B1 (en) * | 2000-01-24 | 2003-02-25 | G. Victor Treyz | Automobile personal computer systems |
US6587835B1 (en) * | 2000-02-09 | 2003-07-01 | G. Victor Treyz | Shopping assistance with handheld computing device |
US7421278B2 (en) * | 2000-03-13 | 2008-09-02 | Intellions, Inc. | Method and apparatus for time-aware and location-aware marketing |
US6757661B1 (en) * | 2000-04-07 | 2004-06-29 | Netzero | High volume targeting of advertisements to user of online service |
US6829780B2 (en) * | 2000-07-17 | 2004-12-07 | International Business Machines Corporation | System and method for dynamically optimizing a banner advertisement to counter competing advertisements |
US20020099605A1 (en) * | 2000-10-06 | 2002-07-25 | Searchcactus, Llc | Search engine with demographic-based advertising |
US20020082914A1 (en) * | 2000-12-26 | 2002-06-27 | Gil Beyda | Hybrid network based advertising system and method |
US20020161633A1 (en) * | 2001-04-27 | 2002-10-31 | Joseph Jacob | Delivery of location significant advertising |
JP2002297077A (en) * | 2001-12-03 | 2002-10-09 | Dentsu Inc | Method and device for controlling transmission of advertisement |
US7680796B2 (en) * | 2003-09-03 | 2010-03-16 | Google, Inc. | Determining and/or using location information in an ad system |
US20030216930A1 (en) * | 2002-05-16 | 2003-11-20 | Dunham Carl A. | Cost-per-action search engine system, method and apparatus |
JP7171713B2 (en) | 2017-11-16 | 2022-11-15 | インテル・コーポレーション | Distributed software-defined industrial system |
US11265602B2 (en) | 2018-04-12 | 2022-03-01 | Rovi Guides, Inc. | Systems and methods for evaluating a promotional campaign |
-
2003
- 2003-10-01 US US10/676,369 patent/US8560493B2/en active Active
-
2004
- 2004-09-27 WO PCT/US2004/031707 patent/WO2005034064A2/en active Application Filing
- 2004-09-27 AU AU2004279071A patent/AU2004279071B2/en active Active
- 2004-09-27 BR BRPI0415037A patent/BRPI0415037B1/en active IP Right Grant
- 2004-09-27 JP JP2006534004A patent/JP2007507752A/en active Pending
- 2004-09-27 CN CNA2004800337467A patent/CN1926564A/en active Pending
- 2004-09-27 KR KR1020067008573A patent/KR20060080243A/en active Search and Examination
- 2004-09-27 EP EP04789113A patent/EP1676252A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2004-09-27 CA CA2540821A patent/CA2540821C/en active Active
-
2009
- 2009-04-08 AU AU2009201373A patent/AU2009201373B2/en active Active
Patent Citations (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US6332127B1 (en) * | 1999-01-28 | 2001-12-18 | International Business Machines Corporation | Systems, methods and computer program products for providing time and location specific advertising via the internet |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20050076014A1 (en) | 2005-04-07 |
CA2540821A1 (en) | 2005-04-14 |
EP1676252A2 (en) | 2006-07-05 |
KR20060080243A (en) | 2006-07-07 |
JP2007507752A (en) | 2007-03-29 |
WO2005034064A3 (en) | 2006-08-10 |
CA2540821C (en) | 2014-12-09 |
US8560493B2 (en) | 2013-10-15 |
WO2005034064A2 (en) | 2005-04-14 |
CN1926564A (en) | 2007-03-07 |
AU2009201373B2 (en) | 2011-11-24 |
AU2009201373A1 (en) | 2009-04-30 |
BRPI0415037B1 (en) | 2017-03-28 |
AU2004279071A1 (en) | 2005-04-14 |
BRPI0415037A (en) | 2006-12-12 |
EP1676252A4 (en) | 2007-02-14 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
AU2004279071B2 (en) | Determining and/or using end user local time information in an ad system | |
US7680796B2 (en) | Determining and/or using location information in an ad system | |
US7523087B1 (en) | Determining and/or designating better ad information such as ad landing pages | |
US8438154B2 (en) | Generating information for online advertisements from internet data and traditional media data | |
AU2009213081B2 (en) | Using concepts for ad targeting | |
US7801899B1 (en) | Mixing items, such as ad targeting keyword suggestions, from heterogeneous sources | |
AU2004271567C1 (en) | Determining and/or using location information in an ad system | |
US8788336B1 (en) | Estimating cost and/or performance information for an advertisement in an advertising system | |
US20150154636A1 (en) | Determining online ad targeting information, such as keyword-targeting suggestions | |
US9858590B1 (en) | Determining better ad selection, scoring, and/or presentation techniques |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
FGA | Letters patent sealed or granted (standard patent) | ||
HB | Alteration of name in register |
Owner name: GOOGLE LLCFree format text: FORMER NAME(S): GOOGLE, INC. |