The application also requires the entitled " Flexible submitted on October 1st, 2010 by Krit Panusopone et al.
The U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. No.61/388,741 of Picture Partitioning " and by Krit
Also entitled " the Flexible Picture Partitioning's " that Panusopone et al. was also submitted on October 1st, 2010
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. No.61/388, the rights and interests of 895 priority, its disclosure is fully incorporated in this as reference.
This application claims the entitled " Arbitrarily submitted on October 8th, 2010 by Krit Panusopone et al.
The U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. No.61/391 of Padding ", the rights and interests of 350 priority, its disclosure is fully incorporated in
This is used as reference.
The application is related to by Krit Panusopone et al. in entitled " the Coding and of submission on the 28th of September in 2011
U.S. of Decoding Utilizing Picture Boundary Variability in Flexible Partitioning "
State patent application serial number No.13/247190, what its requirement was submitted to by Krit Panusopone et al. on October 1st, 2010
The U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. No.61/388,741 of entitled " Flexible Picture Partitioning " and by
Also entitled " the Flexible Picture that Krit Panusopone et al. were also submitted on October 1st, 2010
The U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. No.61/388 of Partitioning ", 895 priority, its disclosure is fully incorporated in this
As reference.
Specific embodiment
For simplicity and illustrative purposes, the present invention is described by Primary Reference embodiment, principle and example.Following
In explanation, a large amount of specific details are set forth, to provide the thorough understanding of example.It will be apparent, however, that can be not limited to
Embodiment is realized in the case of these specific details.In other cases, certain methods and structure are not described in detail, so as to
Specification is not obscured optionally.And, different embodiments are below described.Embodiment can be used together with various combination or
Perform.
As used herein, term " including " refer to " including at least one ", but be not limited to term " only including ".Term
" being based on " refers to " being based at least partially on ".Term " picture（picture）" refer to be equivalent to frame or be equivalent to related to frame
The picture of field, such as, as the field of in two groups of cross hatches of interlaced frames of video.Term " code " can refer to not
The coding of compressed video bitstream.Term " code " can also refer to
It is another.
As described in the following examples and embodiments, exist for using picture boundary fill up codeization and decoding be
System, method and storage are in computer-readable medium（For example, CRM）On machine readable instructions.With reference to Fig. 1, one kind is disclosed
Content delivering system 100, the generation that the related picture boundary of code unit is filled up is prepared using to from frame of video or picture
Codeization system 110 conciliates code system 140.According to example, when video compression data is generated using prepared code unit.
Picture boundary fill up it is described further below after, be described more particularly below code system 110 conciliate code system 140.
Fig. 2 can be to be based on maximum codeization according to default mode to set unit（LCTU）By the example of the picture of piecemeal.
Under default mode, as coordinate system position institute（locus）Superposition coordinate system origin be positioned at always as source picture position
At the angle of fixed picture boundary, it can be fitted to the coordinate system in plane.In fig. 2, the source related to the upper left corner of picture
Picture position be superimposed the origin of coordinate system（0,0）The coordinate system position for locating to occur is overlapped.This occurs under a default mode, making
Obtain the source picture angle maximum codeization tree unit in multiple maximum codeizations tree unit related to homologous picture（That is, in source figure
The LCTU occurred at the angle of piece）Angle overlap.Default mode can be selected based on efficiency measurement, and the efficiency measurement is based on such as
Such factor of uniformity objective and/or border issue determines that Pictures location is maximally effective.
With reference to Fig. 2, the fixed picture boundary 200 of picture is disclosed（That is, thick line rectangle）.Picture in such as video sequence
The periphery of picture can be described by fixed picture boundary 200.Coordinate system can have origin（0,0）, level " x- axles " and
Vertically " y- axles ".Fixed picture boundary 200 can be superimposed by the single quadrant of coordinate system.Quadrant can be by the two of coordinate system
Axle is described.
Each axle can be stated by the several line drawings by the equivalent line length along every number line separation marking point.Perpendicular to
The crosspoint of the line of each mark point can describe the polygonal angle of square, rectangle etc..Each polygon can be with table
Show the LCTU related to the region of the picture in fixed picture boundary 200.It is polygonal to represent LCTU side lengths per side.Retouch
The mark point for stating several lines of each axle can be the absolute value of the multiple of the value of LCTU side lengths.For example, the institute in video sequence
There is the square of the LCTU sizes that picture can be by being first divided into having 64 × 64 pixels, 128 × 128 pixels etc.
LCTU and by piecemeal.
In the figure 2 example, fixed picture boundary 200 and coordinate system are fixed on mutual position.Description
The coordinate system of the position of LCTU is superimposed on fixed picture boundary 200 so that the x- axles and y- of the single quadrant of coordinate system
Axle always with a side superimposed of the picture boundary of picture.In this case, the origin of coordinate system（0,0）Also with picture boundary 200
Angle overlap.LCTU close to origin is filled by the corresponding square area of the picture related to fixed picture boundary 200, from
LCTU in the farthest columns and rows of origin is only partially filled by the region of picture.These LCTU being partially filled with are that border is asked
Topic LCTU.
It is determined that LCTU position when the coordinate system that uses can be in this way superimposed always on source picture.If to sitting
Mark is that the arrangement of the picture boundary on source picture considers without other, then the quaternary tree form leaf in border issue LCTU
Ground piecemeal is iterated with before forming the square leaf being filled and/or in the code unit of these LCTU
Before pixel reaches uniformity rule, the border issue LCTU determined by the arrangement may generate greater amount of code list
Unit.
If the arrangement of LCTU fails to consider the position of the object in the picture of video sequence, larger number is may require
Smaller code unit with reach uniformity rule.Or in another example, if the arrangement of LCTU fails consideration regarded
The position of the motion in the picture of frequency sequence, this it can also happen that.In one case, the piecemeal of LCTU may cause bigger number
The smaller code unit of amount, this requires more expenses to generate and processes all code units related to picture.And
And, when being encapsulated in compressed video bitstream, more bandwidth can be required to send and greater amount of smaller code
The related compressed data of unit.
Fig. 2 shows the default mode according to the example for showing to fix picture boundary 200.The default mode for describing in fig. 2
Under, all LCTU closer to the axle of coordinate system being superimposed upon in fixed picture boundary 200 be filled up completely with these LCTU just
The region of the picture of square region is related.However, the LCTU occurred at the 11st LCTU along x- axles is border issue
LCTU.The LCTU occurred at the 7th LCTU along y- axles is also border issue LCTU.Border issue LCTU be it is imperfect or
The LCTU being partially filled with, and may have any part less than the 100% of its LCTU region related to picture.According to Fig. 2
The example of middle illustration, border issue LCTU has the LCTU region related to any part of its picture in the video sequence
50% or less.Note, positioned at（10.5LCTU x, 6.5LCTUy）Side at the exterior angle of the fixed picture boundary 200 for locating appearance
Boundary problem LCTU only has the 25% of its LCTU region related to any part of picture.Default mode can based on determine with
Pixel in prepared code unit related uniformity objective is selected.If however, do not consider piecemeal these
Fixed picture boundary 200 is arranged in the case of border issue during LCTU, this also can result in generation greater amount of smaller generation
Codeization unit.
However, being filled up by picture boundary for the potential border issue of the default mode source picture positioning described in Fig. 2
Solve.According to example, the picture boundary in Fig. 2 is filled up and fills up region 201 and bottom including the right side and fill up region 202.The lower right corner
LCTU can be padded, and as shown in Figure 2, or fill up region and can overlap.Region operation is filled up, with by each side
In the imperfect LCTU regions of boundary problem LCTU, the pixel region for filling up region for not existing pixel otherwise adds pixel value
To solve border issue.The pixel value for being added can simply be recycled and reused for the last record pixel value of border issue LCTU,
And/or dummy pixel value can be utilized.Then, border issue LCTU in the case where preliminary Iterative Block is not carried out by piecemeal,
To form the square leaf being filled.Note, shown in fig. 2 to fill up in region, the right side is filled up region 201 and is included in
（11LCTU x, 7LCTU y）The position institute at place, its origin angle with the farthest of separation origin source picture angle LCTU（origin
corner）Farthest overlap.Under a default mode, it is farthest with the origin angle of the farthest of separation origin source picture angle LCTU
The position for locating to overlap is the part for filling up region.
With reference to Fig. 3, show partial offset picture boundary 300 as can according to angle mould formula showing by the picture of flexible piecemeal
Example.Under angle mould formula, LCTU can be based on the determination uniformity objective related to the pixel in prepared code unit
On picture positioning.The determination includes：Some considerations of position of the coordinate system on its picture being superimposed on.Uniformity objective
Determination can include the consideration of many factors, including the motion in the position of target or the picture of video sequence.In angle mould formula
Under, first of source Pictures location is appeared in closest to the first source picture angle maximum codeization tree unit of original point position
Away from origin angle most nearby.Can for first and separate offset distance with the origin of coordinate system.In figure 3, first is occurred
（0.5LCTUx, 0.5LCTU y）Place.According to example, angle mould formula can overlap with default mode.In this case, first
Institute overlaps with origin.Under angle mould formula, second overlapped with the farthest from origin angle also with the second source picture angle LCTU
The second source picture angle LCTU angle overlap.In figure 3, a second is appeared in（11LCTU x, 7LCTU y）Place.Its
His second is at the LCTU of two other source picture angle.In figure 3, these are appeared in（11LCTU x, 1LCTU
y）With（0.5LCTU x, 7LCTU y）Place.It is all the two all with the picture angle of source formed LCTU angle joint
Overlap.
According to example, the potential border issue in Fig. 3 fills up region 302 by filling up region 301 and top including a left side
Picture boundary fills up solution.Can be padded as shown in Figure 3 as the upper left source picture angle LCTU of border issue LCTU, or
Filling up region can overlap.Then, border issue LCTU in the case where preliminary Iterative Block is not carried out by piecemeal, to be formed
The square leaf being filled.The picture related to picture boundary and coordinate system and fill up region other are such as retouched above with reference to Fig. 2
State.Note, what is described in figure 3 fills up in region, a left side fills up region 301 and is included in what is overlapped with origin（0,0）The position institute at place.
Under angle mould formula, the position overlapped with origin is the part for filling up region.
Under angle mould formula, code efficiency will be increased based on the displacement for determining the picture boundary arrangement away from origin, from seat
Marking the exterior angle of the picture boundary of the farthest positioning of origin of system can be fitted to the exterior angle of the LCTU in coordinate system.In partial offset
In picture boundary 300, coordinate system position institute and picture boundary position where coordinate pair（11LCTU x, 7LCTU y）Place overlaps.Angle mould formula
Increase code efficiency, while using considerably less expense.According to example, angle mould formula can require nothing more than 2 overhead bits, to indicate
The horizontal shift related to the partial offset picture boundary 300 in coordinate system and/or the direction of vertical movement.
With reference to Fig. 4, show to offset picture boundary 400 completely（That is, thick line rectangle）As can be clever according to explicit mode
The example of the picture of piecemeal living.The periphery of the picture in coordinate system can be described by offseting picture boundary 400 completely.According to showing
Example, potential border issue in Fig. 4 fills up the region 402, right side by including a left side filling up region 401, top and fills up region 403 and bottom
The picture boundary that region 404 is filled up in portion is filled up to solve.Source picture angle border issue LCTU can be filled out as illustrated in fig. 4
Mending, or fill up region to overlap.Then, border issue LCTU is divided in the case where preliminary Iterative Block is not carried out
Block, to form the square shape leaf being filled.Coordinate system and picture and fill up region other such as above with reference to Fig. 2 and
Fig. 3 is described.Note, figure 4 illustrates fill up in region, a left side fills up region 401 and is included in what is overlapped with origin（0,0）Place
Position institute, and the right side fills up region 403 and is included in（12LCTU x, 8LCTU y）The position institute at place.These with the origin of coordinate system
And a coincidence in the point overlapped with the farthest at the origin angle of the farthest of separation origin source picture angle LCTU.In explicit mould
Under formula, at least one of the two institutes can find in region is filled up.
In fig. 4 in shown example, the picture related to coordinate system on positioning freely of each other.It is true based on uniformity
It is fixed, picture boundary 400 is offset completely may be located remotely from origin（0,0）And/or the displacement of LCTU sides, as shown in Figure 4.Explicit mode bag
The pin-point accuracy arrangement of skew picture boundary 400 completely is included, and can be set with any desired degree of accuracy, such as, 1 pixel
Interval, 4 pixel separations, 8 pixel separations, 16 pixel separations etc..Can be determined for showing mould using picture analyzing
The offset vector of the flexible piecemeal under formula.Offset vector can include the side by picture boundary in two axles
The angular orientation of axle and in the default bitmap piece of quadrant, such as, in quadrant in the plane of coordinate system rotating image, with based on such as
Some aspects of the texture related to the object or the feature of the picture of background in such as picture or motion increase codeization effect
Rate.
Because do not increase border issue it is inefficient in the case of, prepared code unit is more likely fitted to source
Image content in picture, the flexible piecemeal filled up using picture boundary can improve code efficiency.For example, source picture can be with
It is included in the simple background area and the more detailed region to top of bottom.In this case, the spirit filled up using picture boundary
Piecemeal living can prepare the bigger code unit related to the background in the bottom of source picture, and so as to not increase border
In the case of problem is inefficient, there is provided code efficiency higher.Code system or equipment can analyze image content, to determine
Picture boundary is offset and area code standard is filled up on border, to improve the flexible piecemeal of source picture.
Fig. 1 is referred again to, code system 110 includes input interface 130, controller 111, counter 112, frame memory
113rd, coding unit 114, transmitter buffer 115 and output interface 135.Solution code system 140 include receiver buffer 150,
Decoding unit 151, frame memory 152 and controller 153.Code system 110 conciliates code system 140 via including compression bit
The transmitting path of stream 105 intercouples.The controller 111 of code system 110 is based on the volume controlled of receiver buffer 150
The data volume that will be sent, and the other specification of the data volume of such as time per unit can be included.The control of controller 111 is compiled
Code unit 114, to prevent the failure of the received signal decoding operate for solving code system 140.Controller 111 can be treatment
Device, or the microcomputer including for example having processor, random access memory and read-only storage.
The source bit stream 120 provided from such as content supplier can include the video sequence of frame, and it includes video sequence
In source picture.Source bit stream 120 can be decompressed or compress.If source bit stream 120 is decompressed, code system
110 can be related to code function.If source bit stream 120 is compressed, code system 110 can be with transcoding function phase
Close.Coding unit can be obtained using controller 111 from source picture.Frame memory 113 can have first area and the secondth area
Domain, first area can be used for storing the input source picture from source bit stream 120, and second area can be used for reading source
Picture and output them into coding unit 114.Region switch-over control signal 123 can be exported frame and deposited by controller 111
Reservoir 113.Region switch-over control signal 123 can be indicated will be using first area or second area.
Coding control signal 124 is exported coding unit 114 by controller 111.Coding control signal 124 makes coding unit
114 start encoding operation, such as, code unit are prepared based on source picture.In response to the coding-control letter from controller 111
Numbers 124, coding unit 114 starts for prepared code unit to read into high efficiency coded treatment, such as, prediction code
Treatment or transform codeization treatment, the prepared code unit of its treatment, generation are based on the source picture related to code unit
Video compression data.
The video compression data that coding unit 114 will can be generated is encapsulated in the packed basic flow including video bag
（PES）In.Coding unit 114 can use control information and program timestamp（PTS）Video bag is mapped into encoded video letter
Numbers 122, and encoded video signal 122 can be sent to transmitter buffer 115 by signal.
The encoded video signal 122 of the video compression data including being generated can be stored in transmitter buffer 114
In.Traffic count device 112 is incremented by, to indicate to send the total amount of data in buffer 115.When being retrieved from buffer and removed
During data, counter 112 can successively decrease, to reflect the data volume in transmitter buffer 114.Occupied area information signal
Whether 126 can be sent to counter 112, cached to indicate the data from coding unit 114 to be added or from sending
Device 115 is removed so that counter 112 can be with increasing or decreasing.Controller 111 can be based on the occupied region that can be communicated
Information 126 controls the generation of video bag produced by coding unit 114, with preventing from occurring in transmitter buffer 115
Overflow or underflow.
Traffic count device 112 can be weighed in response to the reset signal 128 for being generated and being exported by controller 111
Put.After information counter 112 is reset, can to the data counts that are exported by coding unit 114, and obtain by
The video compression data of generation and/or the amount of video bag.Then, traffic count device 112 can provide expression for controller 111
The information content signal 129 of the information content for being obtained.Controller 111 can control coding unit 114 so that in transmitter buffer
In the absence of spilling at 115.
Solution code system 140 includes input interface 170, receiver buffer 150, controller 153, frame memory 152, decoding
Unit 151 and output interface 175.The receiver buffer 150 for solving code system 140 can be based on from source bit stream 120
Source picture, temporarily storage includes the compression bit stream 105 of received video compression data and video bag.Solution code system 140 can
Information and control information are stabbed to read the time of occurrence related to video bag in received data, and output is applied to control
The frame count signal 163 of device processed.For example, when decoding unit 151 completes decoding operate every time, controller 153 can be at a predetermined interval
The counting of management frame.
When frame count signal 163 indicates receiver buffer 150 in predetermined volumes, controller 153 can open decoding
Decoding unit 151 is arrived in the output of beginning signal 164.When frame count signal 163 indicates receiver buffer 150 less than predetermined volumes, control
Device processed 153 can wait the counting of frame become equal to scheduled volume the occurrence of.When frame count signal 163 indicates receiver caching
When device 150 is in predetermined volumes, controller 153 can export decoding commencing signal 164.Encoded video bag and video compression data
The time of occurrence related to encoded video bag can be based on to stab, according to monotonic order（That is, increased or decrease）It is decoded.
In response to decoding commencing signal 164, decoding unit 151 can amount to a picture related to frame data and
Decoded to the related compressed video data of the related picture of the video bag from receiver buffer 150.Decoding unit 151 can
Frame memory 152 is write with by decoding video signal 162.Frame memory 152 can have the decoded vision signal of write-in
First area and be used to read into decoding bit stream 160 second area of output interface 175.
It is described above that related different mode is filled up to picture boundary（For example, default mode, angle mould formula, explicit mode）
In the case of can changing the grammer by the head to the video bag in compression bit stream 105 is considered, by HEVC models
Realize.Grammer changes can be realized in the different layers of video sequence, such as, in sequence, picture and/or slice layer（slice
layer）.
Table 1 is highlighted the grammer for showing can be realized in HEVC heads at sequence layer with runic and changed.
Grammers of the table 1- at sequence layer changes.
Table II highlighted with runic show can be at picture layer HEVC heads in realize grammer change.
Table II-grammer at picture layer changes.
Table III highlighted with runic show can be at slice layer HEVC heads in realize grammer change.
Table III-grammer at slice layer changes.
The semanteme for utilizing can be changed by the grammer in Table I-III includes：Arbitrarily_padding_enable_
Whether flag is specified in sequence, picture and/or fragment using arbitrarily filling up.When any filling up is deactivated（arbitrarily_
Padding_enable_flag is equal to 0）When, all parameters of filling up both are set to zero.They also include Arbitrarily_
Padding_mode, its specified sequence, picture and/or fragment fill up pattern.When use angle mould formula（Pattern 0）When, fill up ginseng
Number is arranged to the fixed range determined by corner_padding_flag.
If corner_padding_flag is equal to 0, picture is padded to cause its original upper left corner LCTU with input
The upper left angular alignment of picture.This may imply that top_padding_size and left_padding_size are arranged to 0.
If corner_padding_flag is equal to 1, picture is padded to cause its original upper right corner LCTU with input
The upper right angular alignment of picture.This may imply that top_padding_size is arranged to zero, and left_padding_size quilts
It is set to pic_height_in_luma_samples-MaxCodingUnitSize* [pic_height_in_luma_
samples/MaxCodingUnitSize]。
If corner_padding_flag is equal to 2, picture is padded to cause its original lower left corner LCTU with input
The lower-left angular alignment of picture.This may imply that left_padding_size is arranged to zero, and top_padding_size quilts
It is set to pic_width_in_luma_samples-MaxCodingUnitSize * [pic_width_in_luma_
samples/MaxCodingUnitSize]。
If corner_padding_flag is arranged to 3, picture be padded for cause its original lower right corner LCTU with
It is input into the bottom right angular alignment of picture.This might mean that top_padding_size is arranged to pic_height_in_luma_
Samples-MaxCodingUnitSize* [pic_height_in_luma_samples/MaxCodingUnitSize], and
Left_padding_size is arranged to pic_width_in_luma_samples-MaxCodingUnitSize* [pic_
width_in_luma_samples/MaxCodingUnitSize]。
When using explicit mode（Pattern 1）When, input picture can by flatly by right_padding_size and
The left_padding_size and amount for vertically being indicated by top_padding_size and bottom_padding_size is filled out
Mend.
According to different examples, code system 110 can be combined or otherwise with transcoder or code device at head end
It is associated therewith, and decoding system 140 can be combined or no with the upstream device of such as mobile device, Set Top Box or transcoder
It is then associated therewith.These can be with the method for filling up code and/or decoding in preparing code unit using picture boundary
Utilized individually or together.Can realize that code system 110 conciliates the various modes of code system 140 below in relation to Fig. 5, Fig. 6
It is more fully described with Fig. 7, its flow chart for showing method 500,600 and 700.
Method 500 is for filling up the method for preparing code unit using picture boundary.Method 600 is made for utilization
The method that the code unit for filling up preparation with picture boundary enters line code.Method 700 is to use picture boundary for utilization
Fill up the method that the compressed data of generation is decoded.The description of method 500,600 and 700 is summarized, and can add it
His step and existing step can be removed, changes or rearrange, without deviating from the scope of method 500,600 and 700, this is right
It is obvious for those of ordinary skill in the art.The description of method 500,600 and 700 is with particular reference to described in Fig. 1
Code system 110 conciliate code system 140.It is to be appreciated, however, that the situation of the scope in the method that do not depart from 500,600 and 700
Under, method 500,600 and 700 can be real in the system and/or equipment that code system 140 is conciliate different from code system 110
It is existing.
With reference to the method 500 in Fig. 5, in step 501, the controller 111 related to code system 110 is based on coordinate
System and source picture are mutually fitted, and calculate the efficiency measurement related to the potential source Pictures location in coordinate system.
In step 502, controller 111 determines whether calculated efficiency measurement meets related to code efficiency goal
Minimum efficiency is measured.
In step 503, if the efficiency measurement for being calculated meets minimum efficiency measurement, controller 111 is based on being calculated
Efficiency measurement, source picture and coordinate system, determine the potential source Pictures location in coordinate system.
In step 504, one in controller 111 potential source Pictures location and code efficiency goal based on determined by
Or it is multiple, determine actual source Pictures location.
In step 505, controller 111 and coding unit 114 the source Pictures location based on determined by determine（One more
It is individual）Fill up region.
In step 506, the actual source Pictures location based on determined by of controller 111, by source picture and（One or more）
Identified region division of filling up is for multiple LCTU.
In step 507, controller 111 is based on the tree format related to the pixel in code unit and uniformity rule,
It is at least one code unit by the maximum codeization tree unit piecemeal of multiple LCTU.
With reference to the method 600 in Fig. 6, in step 601, the interface 130 and frame memory 113 of code system 110 are received
Source bit stream 120 including source picture.
In step 602, controller 111 prepares code unit based on received source picture.Preparing can close as more than
Performed in the description of method 500.
In step 603, controller 111 and coding unit 114 process prepared code unit, and generation is based on through treatment
The video compression data of code unit.
In step 604, controller 111 and coding unit 114 encapsulate generated video compression data.
In step 605, controller 111 and transmitter buffer 115 send via interface 135 in compression bit stream 105
Encapsulated video compression data.
With reference to the method 700 in Fig. 7, in step 701, solution code system 140 is via interface 170 and receiver buffer 150
Reception includes the compression bit stream 105 of video compression data.
In step 702, solution code system 140 is received and video compression data phase via interface 170 and receiver buffer 150
The remaining picture of pass（residual picture）.
In step 703, decoding unit 151 and controller 153 process received video compression data.
In step 704, the video compression data that decoding unit 151 and controller 153 are based on through processing is surplus with what is received
Remaining picture generates reconstructed picture.
In step 705, decoding unit 151 and controller 153 encapsulate generated reconstructed picture and send out their signals
Deliver to frame memory 152.
In step 706, via interface 175, the signal in decoded signal 180 sends generated reconstruct to controller 153
Picture.
Some or all of may be provided in the above method and operation is stored on computer-readable recording medium
Apply, the machine readable instructions of computer program etc., computer-readable recording medium can be temporary with right and wrong, such as,
Hardware storage device, or other kinds of storage device.For example, they can as by with source code, object code, can
Perform the programmed instruction composition of code or extended formatting（One or more）Program is present.
The example of computer-readable recording medium includes conventional computer system RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM and magnetic
Or the disk or band of light.Specific example above includes distribution of the program on CD ROM.So as to, it will be appreciated that it is able to carry out above-mentioned
Any electronic equipment of function can carry out those listed above function.
With reference to Fig. 8, show can be for filling up code or the system of decoding, such as code system using picture boundary
It is used as the platform 800 of computing device in system 100 and/or solution code system 200.Platform 800 may be utilized for upstream coding dress
Put, transcoder or the such as upstream device of Set Top Box, mobile phone, mobile phone or other mobile devices, picture boundary can be utilized
Fill up and filled up based on picture boundary preparation correlative code unit transcoder and other equipment and device.It will be understood that,
The diagram of platform 800 is general diagram, and platform 800 can include additional assemblies, and described some components can be with
It is removed and/or changes, without deviating from the scope of platform 800.
Platform 800 includes：（One or more）Processor 801, such as, CPU；Display 802, such as, prison
Visual organ；Interface 803, such as, single-input interface and/or to LAN（LAN）, wireless 802.11x LAN, 3G or 4G movement WAN
Or the network interface of WiMax WAN；And computer-readable medium 804.Each in these components is operatively coupled
To bus 808.For example, bus 808 can be EISA, PCI, USB, FireWire, NuBus or PDS.
The computer-readable medium of such as CRM804（CRM）Can participate in providing instructions to（One or more）Treatment
Device 801 is used for any suitable media for performing.For example, CRM804 can be non-volatile media, such as, light or disk；It is volatile
Property medium, such as memory；And transmission medium, such as, coaxial cable, copper cash and optical fiber.Transmission medium can also be used
The form of sound, light or rf wave.CRM804 can also store other instructions or instruction set, including word processor, browse
Device, Email, instant message, media player and telephone number.
CRM804 can be with storage program area 805, such as, MAC OS, MSWINDOWS, UNIX or LINUX；Using journey
Sequence 806, web application, word processor, spreadsheet applications, browser, Email, instant message, such as
Game or mobile applications（For example, " apps "）Media player；And data structure managing application program 807.Operation
System 805 can be multi-user, multiprocessing, multitask, multithreading, in real time etc..Operating system 805 can also be held
Row basic task, such as recognizes the input from interface 803, including the input from such as keyboard or keypad；Output is sent out
Deliver to display 802 and by file and catalogue record on CRM804；Control ancillary equipment, such as, disk drive, printing
Machine, image-capturing apparatus；And the business in management bus 808.Can include for setting up and keeping network connection using 806
Multiple assembly, such as, for realize include the code of the communication protocol of TCP/IP, HTTP, Ethernet, USB and FireWire
Or instruction.
The data structure managing application of such as data structure managing application 807 is provided for for nonvolatile memory is built
It is vertical/to update computer-readable system（CRS）The various code components of framework, as described above.In particular example, by data structure
Managing can be integrated into operating system 805 using the 807 some or all for the treatment of for performing.In particular example, treatment can
To be at least partially implemented in Fundamental Digital Circuit, computer hardware, firmware, code, instruction set or its any combinations.
Principle of the invention, there is offer is used to utilize picture boundary changeability code in code unit is prepared
System, method and the computer-readable medium changed and decode（CRM）.By using picture boundary changeability, LCTU can be on
Picture is freely positioned so that their correlative code unit can be by piecemeal, with increase and by for utilizing picture boundary
The changeability codeization code efficiency related to the treatment expense and/or bandwidth that CRM is required to the system of decoding, method.
Although the entirety through the disclosure is particularly described, typical case all has practicality in broad range of application
Property, and discussed above be not used in and should not be construed as limited to.Term as used herein, explanation and accompanying drawing are only by showing
Figure is illustrated and is not intended to limit.It would be recognized by those skilled in the art that various changes can be in the spirit and scope of example
It is interior.Although describing example with reference to example, those skilled in the art can make various modifications to described example, and
The scope of the example described in following claims and its equivalent is not departed from.