CN108701263A - Quantum statistics machine - Google Patents
Quantum statistics machine Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN108701263A CN108701263A CN201680082538.9A CN201680082538A CN108701263A CN 108701263 A CN108701263 A CN 108701263A CN 201680082538 A CN201680082538 A CN 201680082538A CN 108701263 A CN108701263 A CN 108701263A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- quantum
- state
- nodes
- stage
- study
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N10/00—Quantum computing, i.e. information processing based on quantum-mechanical phenomena
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N10/00—Quantum computing, i.e. information processing based on quantum-mechanical phenomena
- G06N10/40—Physical realisations or architectures of quantum processors or components for manipulating qubits, e.g. qubit coupling or qubit control
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N10/00—Quantum computing, i.e. information processing based on quantum-mechanical phenomena
- G06N10/60—Quantum algorithms, e.g. based on quantum optimisation, quantum Fourier or Hadamard transforms
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N20/00—Machine learning
Abstract
A kind of method, system and equipment include the computer program encoded on computer storage media, for constructing and programming the quantum hardware handled for machine learning.Quantum statistics machine (QSM) is described, by being formed including visible, hiding and control quantum subspace or three different classes of strong interaction degree of freedom of subsystem.Using having unique open quantum Markov chain of programmable non-equilibrium traversal for attracting stable state in the space of density operator, to define QSM.Such as the solution of the information handling task of statistical inference or optimization task can be encoded as attracting the quantum statistics of stable state, wherein the energy minimization by making true or imaginary quantum Hamiltonian, infers to execute quantum.The coupling that the QSM between visible node and concealed nodes can be trained, to solve hard optimization or infer task.
Description
Technical field
This specification is related to constructing and programming the quantum hardware for machine learning processing.
Background technology
Invention content
Artificial intelligence task can be converted into machine learning optimization problem.In order to execute artificial intelligent task, profit can be trained
With dissipation quantum dynamics figure to generate the information processing model of the desired probability distribution for optimizing and inferring task firmly.
Information processing model can provide some inputs consistent with the internal state of model and the surrounding noise world
The statistics of pattern describes.The model can form stable internal state by being fully exposed to training data so that its energy
Enough predictions that their own is made about the statistics behavior for other patterns for not including in training data.Can be designed for coding,
The learning strategy that programming and machine are read, and can be used for solving hard Combinatorial Optimization and deduction task with desired precision.
The inherent control error of the quanta fluctuation caused by environmental interaction and system, so quantum processor can not
It is present in avoiding in the mixing quantum classics world.The structure and dynamic of this processor may be extremely complex so that hardly
The equation of motion for analytically or digitally capturing its behavior may be solved using algorithm known.In addition, quantum processor is usual
Additional quantum error correction procedure is needed, this may be very harsh (demanding).Particularly, optimize given or push away firmly
The solution of disconnected task is encoded to the analog quantity of balance ground state with usual smaller minimum clearance, being provided by ANALOGY OF BOLTZMANN DISTRIBUTION
Sub-processor (such as Quantum annealing processor and adiabatic quantum computation framework) is struggled with scalability.
Information processing model includes quantum hardware, the quantum hardware be constructed and program so as to execute quantum calculation without
Extremely harsh quantum error correction procedure.Quantum hardware provides for quantum calculation is not subjected to known scalability and problem of implementation
, real recent engineering method.Quantum hardware provides the coding of robust, ensures the dynamic robust about disturbance, and
Enhance the performance about time complexity.Particularly, quantum hardware construction has the non-information of auxiliary degree of freedom, can be used for
Dissipation quantum engineering is executed in the case of not bathing engineering.
The novel aspects of theme described in this specification can be embodied in a kind of equipment, including:Multiple logic quantum sections
Point, the logic quantum nodes include input quantum nodes, hide quantum nodes and output quantum nodes, wherein the multiple patrol
Each logic quantum nodes in quantum nodes are collected to can be configured to switch between clamp state conciliates clamp state;Multiple controls
Quantum nodes, each of the multiple control quantum nodes control quantum nodes can be configured to be clamp state, solution clamp
Switch between state or non-interaction state, wherein under non-interaction state, control quantum nodes do not influence its institute's coupling
Any other node closed;Multiple quantum nodes couplers, each coupler are configured as coupling a pair of of quantum nodes, wherein:
Input quantity child node and hiding quantum nodes are at least coupled to the first control quantum nodes by the coupler;With the coupler
Hiding quantum nodes and output quantum nodes are at least coupled to the second control quantum nodes.
The other embodiment of this aspect includes corresponding computer system, device and method.One or more computers
System can be configured as executes specific operation or action, institute by software, firmware, hardware for being installed in system or combinations thereof
State software, firmware, hardware or combinations thereof promotes system to execute the action in operation.One or more computer program energy quilts
Be configured to execute specific operation or action by including instruction, described instruction by data processing equipment (for example, one or more
A computer or computer processor) operation when, promote the equipment to execute the action.
Each in foregoing and other embodiment can optionally include one or more following characteristics, alone or in combination.
In some implementations, during the concealed nodes training stage, the control quantum nodes are in study sub-stage and non-study sub-stage
Period is in non-interaction state, and during the control node training stage, and the control quantum nodes are in study sub-stage
Clamp state is solved with being in during non-study sub-stage.
In some implementations, during the concealed nodes training stage, this hide quantum nodes study sub-stage and
In solution clamp state during non-study sub-stage.
In some implementations, during the concealed nodes training stage, the input quantum nodes and output quantum section
Point is in clamp state during learning sub-stage, and in solution clamp state during non-study sub-stage.
In some implementations, during the control node training stage, the hiding quantum nodes are in study sub-stage
With during non-study sub-stage be in clamp state.
In some implementations, during the control node training stage, the input quantum nodes and output quantum section
Point is in clamp state during learning sub-stage, and in solution clamp state during non-study sub-stage.
In some implementations, the first and second control quantum nodes are identical control quantum nodes;Coupler will
Input quantum nodes are coupled to hiding quantum nodes;Hiding quantum nodes are coupled to output quantum nodes with coupler.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes include quantum governor node.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes indicate the non-letter of carrying degree of freedom
Breath.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes indicate the information of carrying degree of freedom.
In some implementations, one or more of described quantum nodes are superconducting cells.
In some implementations, one or more of described quantum nodes are by the Josephson junction and capacitor that are connected in parallel
Construction.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes are configured to have and the control
The identical precision of superconducting cell.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control superconducting cell is configured to have than the logic
The lower precision of superconducting cell.
In some implementations, in the superconductive quantum bit of the logic superconducting cell one or more by the pact that is connected in parallel
Se Fusen is tied and capacitor constructions, and the superconductive quantum bit of the wherein described control superconducting cell is by parallel and/or concatenated
More knot Josephson boxes, inductor and capacitor construction, to construct desired N grades of controllable control system.
In some implementations, one or more of described quantum nodes coupler is inductive coupler.
The novel aspects of theme described in this specification can be embodied in a kind of method, including action:Receive one group of instruction
Practice data;Prepare arbitrary initial quantum state, wherein the initial quantum state be include multiple logic quantum nodes and controlled quentity controlled variable
The tensor product of the original state of the quantum processor of child node and the state of bath;Define the concealed nodes training of (i) quantum nodes
Stage, the control node training stage of (ii) quantum nodes, the study sub-stage of (iii) quantum nodes, and (iv) quantum section
The non-study sub-stage of point;Iteratively determination is into the concealed nodes training stage or to enter the control node training stage;It is right
In wherein determining each iteration into the concealed nodes training stage:Set control node to non-interaction state;Iteration
Ground changes the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage.
The other embodiment of this aspect includes corresponding computer system, equipment and is recorded in one or more computers and deposits
Computer program on storage device, each is configured as the action of execution method.One or more system for computer energy quilts
It is configured to execute specific operation or action by software, firmware, hardware for installing in system or combinations thereof, the software,
Firmware, hardware or combinations thereof promote system to execute the action in operation.One or more computer programs can be configured as
Execute specific operation or action by including instruction, described instruction by data processing equipment (for example, one or more calculate
Machine or computer processor) operation when, promote the equipment to execute the action.
Each in foregoing and other embodiment can optionally include one or more following characteristics, alone or in combination.
In some implementations, iteratively change the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage includes, for completing generation in event
Preceding each iteration:Switch the study of quantum nodes and non-study stage;Evolution quantum state is until reaching under dissipation amount subgraph
Until stable state, wherein the solution of encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state;Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;It determines and measures consequence
Whether in giving in set a distance away from known results;With when measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determines and complete
Event occurs.
In some implementations, this method further includes:For wherein determining that it enters changing every time for control node training stage
Generation:Set control node to solution clamp state;Iteratively change the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage.
In some implementations, iteratively change the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage includes, for complete in event
At each iteration before generation:Switch the study of quantum nodes and non-study stage;The evolution quantum shape under dissipation amount subgraph
State is until reaching stable state, wherein the solution of encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state;Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;It determines
Whether measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With when measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance,
Determine that completion event occurs.
In some implementations, each iteration of the concealed nodes training stage, the method are entered for wherein determining
Further include:During study sub-stage and non-study sub-stage, it sets the hiding quantum nodes to solution clamp state.
In some implementations, this method further includes that will output and input quantum nodes during learning sub-stage to be set as pincers
Position state, and will output and input quantum nodes during non-study sub-stage and be set as solution clamp state.
In some implementations, the quantum nodes that output and input are set to clamp shape during the study sub-stage
State includes:The concealed nodes that output and input are clamped to the training data.
In some implementations, each iteration of the control node training stage, the method are entered for wherein determining
Further include:During the study sub-stage and the non-study sub-stage, it sets the hiding quantum nodes to clamp shape
State.
In some implementations, setting the hiding quantum nodes to the clamp state includes:By the hiding quantum
Node is clamped to the learning value of the concealed nodes training stage.
In some implementations, this method further includes:Quantum nodes will be output and input during learning sub-stage to be set as
Clamp state, and will output and input quantum nodes during non-study sub-stage and be set as solution clamp state.
In some implementations, the quantum nodes that output and input are set to the pincers during the study sub-stage
Position state include:The concealed nodes that output and input are clamped to the training data.
In some implementations, the original state of the quantum processor is entangled quantum state.
In some implementations, evolution of the quantum state under the dissipation amount subgraph ensures to reach stable state.
In some implementations, the stable state is unique stable state.
In some implementations, the stable state is nonequilibrium state.
In some implementations, the non-equilibrium stable state has corresponding imaginary Hamiltonian, wherein the imaginary Hamilton
The power spectrum of amount encodes the solution of the Machine Learning Problems.
In some implementations, the evolution of the quantum state is by quantum Governor Design, without obtain any bath from
By spending.
In some implementations, the stable state substantially converges to the expectation state, and the expectation state provides base
Close to the result of the expected result in sheet.
In some implementations, the quantum measurement is that positive operator value measures.
In some implementations, this method further includes providing training quantum processor, for being used in machine learning task.
In some implementations, determine the measurement consequence whether away from the known results to further including in set a distance:
Calculate the relative entropy measured between consequence and known results.
In some implementations, determine the measurement consequence whether away from the known results to further including in set a distance:
Execute chi square test.
The further novel aspects of theme described in this specification can be embodied in a kind of equipment, including:Multiple logics
Quantum nodes, the logic quantum nodes include input quantum nodes, hide quantum nodes and output quantum nodes, wherein described
Each logic quantum nodes in multiple logic quantum nodes can be configured to switch between clamp state conciliates clamp state;It is more
A control quantum nodes, each of the multiple control quantum nodes control quantum nodes can be configured in clamp state, solution
Switch between clamp state or initial default state;Multiple quantum nodes couplers, it is a pair of that each coupler is configured as coupling
Quantum nodes, wherein:Input quantity child node and hiding quantum nodes are at least coupled to the first control quantum section by the coupler
Point;Hiding quantum nodes and output quantum nodes are at least coupled to the second control quantum nodes with the coupler.
The other embodiment of this aspect includes corresponding computer system, device and method.One or more computers
System can be configured as executes specific operation or action, institute by software, firmware, hardware for being installed in system or combinations thereof
State software, firmware, hardware or combinations thereof promotes system to execute the action in operation.One or more computer program energy quilts
Be configured to execute specific operation or action by including instruction, described instruction by data processing equipment (for example, one or more
A computer or computer processor) operation when, promote the equipment to execute the action.
Each in foregoing and other embodiment can optionally include one or more following characteristics, alone or in combination.
In some implementations, during the first study stage and the first non-study stage, the control quantum nodes are in clamp state,
And during the second study stage and the second non-study stage, the control quantum nodes are in solution clamp state.
In some implementations, during the first study stage and the first non-study stage, the hiding quantum nodes are in
Solve clamp state.
In some implementations, during the first study stage, the input quantum nodes and the output quantum section
Point is in clamp state, and during the described first non-study stage, the input quantum nodes and the output quantum section
Point is in solution clamp state.
In some implementations, during the second study stage and the second non-study stage, the hiding quantum
Node is in clamp state.
In some implementations, during the second study stage, the input quantum nodes and the output quantum section
Point is in clamp state, and during the described second non-study stage, the input quantum nodes and the output quantum section
Point is in solution clamp state.
In some implementations, the first and second control quantum nodes are different control quantum nodes;The input
Quantum nodes and the obstructed overcoupling device coupling of hiding quantum nodes;Do not pass through with the hiding quantum nodes and output quantum nodes
Coupler couples.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes include quantum governor node.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes indicate the non-letter of carrying degree of freedom
Breath.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes indicate the information of carrying degree of freedom.
In some implementations, the quantum nodes are superconducting cells.
In some implementations, one or more of described quantum nodes utilize the Josephson junction and capacitance being connected in parallel
Device constructs.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes are configured to have and the control
The identical precision of superconducting cell.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple control superconducting cell is configured to have than the logic
The lower precision of superconducting cell.
In some implementations, one or more superconductive quantum bits of the logic superconducting cell utilize the pact being connected in parallel
Se Fusen is tied and capacitor constructions, and the superconductive quantum bit of the wherein described control superconducting cell utilizes in parallel and/or series connection
More knot Josephson boxes, the inductor and capacitor construction of connection, to construct desired N grades of controllable control system.
In some implementations, one or more of the multiple quantum nodes coupler is inductive coupler.
The further novel aspects of theme described in this specification can be embodied in a kind of method, including action:It receives
One group of training data;Prepare arbitrary initial quantum state, wherein the initial quantum state be include multiple logic quantum nodes with
Control the tensor product of the original state of the quantum processor of quantum nodes and the state of bath;Define (i) quantum nodes first is learned
Habit stage, the second study stage of (ii) quantum nodes, the first non-study sub-stage of (iii) quantum nodes, and (iv) amount
Second non-study sub-stage of child node;Iteratively determination is into the first study stage or to enter for the first non-study stage;
Enter each iteration in the first study stage for wherein determining:Set control node to clamp state;In dissipation amount subgraph
Lower evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein the solution of encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state;It is executed in stable state
Quantum measures;Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;Consequence is measured away from known results with working as
When in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
The other embodiment of this aspect includes corresponding computer system, equipment and is recorded in one or more computers and deposits
Computer program on storage device, each is configured as the action of execution method.One or more system for computer energy quilts
It is configured to execute specific operation or action by software, firmware, hardware for installing in system or combinations thereof, the software,
Firmware, hardware or combinations thereof promote system to execute the action in operation.One or more computer programs can be configured as
Execute specific operation or action by including instruction, described instruction by data processing equipment (for example, one or more calculate
Machine or computer processor) operation when, promote the equipment to execute the action.
Each in foregoing and other embodiment can optionally include one or more following characteristics, alone or in combination.
In some implementations, this method includes:It is set as solution clamp state into the second study stage, including by control node;It is consuming
Evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state under scattered quantum figure, wherein the solution of encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state;Steady
Quantum is executed in state to measure;Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;Consequence is measured away from working as
Know result in set a distance when, determine that completion event occurs.
In some implementations, this method further includes:For wherein determining each iteration into the first non-study stage:It will
Control node is set as clamp state;Evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state under dissipation amount subgraph, wherein in stable state
The solution of lower encoding machine problem concerning study;Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;It determines and whether measures consequence in giving away from known results
In set a distance;With when measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
In some implementations, this method further includes:It is set as solution pincers into the second non-study stage, including by control node
Position state;Evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state under dissipation amount subgraph, wherein encoding machine study is asked in the steady state
The solution of topic;Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;It is measured with working as
Consequence determines that completion event occurs when away from known results in set a distance.
In some implementations, the method further includes:The each iteration for entering for the first study stage for wherein determining, with
And for wherein determining each iteration into the first non-study stage, it sets hiding quantum nodes to solution clamp state.
In some implementations, this method further includes:The each iteration for entering for the first study stage for wherein determining, will be defeated
Enter and export quantum nodes and be set as clamp state, and for wherein determining each iteration into the first non-study stage,
Quantum nodes will be output and input and be set as solution clamp state.
In some implementations, for wherein determining each iteration into the first study stage, quantum will be output and input
Node is set as clamp state:Quantum nodes will be output and input and be clamped to training data.
In some implementations, the method further includes:For wherein entering second study each iteration in stage and right
In each iteration for wherein entering for the second non-study stage, it sets the hiding quantum nodes to clamp state.
In some implementations, this method further includes:For wherein enter second study the stage each iteration, will input and
Output quantum nodes are set as clamp state, and for wherein entering each iteration in the second non-study stage, will input and
Output quantum nodes are set as solution clamp state.
In some implementations, this method further includes:For wherein enter second study the stage each iteration, will input and
Output quantum nodes are set as clamp state and include:The quantum nodes that output and input are clamped to the training data.
In some implementations, wherein for wherein determining each iteration into the first non-study stage, by control node
Being set as clamp state further includes:Control node is clamped to the equilibrium state in the second study stage.
In some implementations, entered for the first study stage after being completed for the second non-study stage for wherein determining
Each iteration, setting control node to clamp state further includes:Control node is clamped to the balance in the second non-study stage
State.
In some implementations, the original state of the quantum processor is entangled quantum state.
In some implementations, the evolution of the quantum state under dissipation amount subgraph ensures to reach stable state.
In some implementations, the stable state is unique stable state.
In some implementations, the stable state is nonequilibrium state.
In some implementations, the non-equilibrium stable state has corresponding imaginary Hamiltonian, wherein the imaginary Hamilton
The power spectrum of amount encodes the solution of the Machine Learning Problems.
In some implementations, the evolution of quantum state is by quantum Governor Design, without obtaining the degree of freedom of any bath.
In some implementations, the stable state substantially converges to the expectation state, and the expectation state provides base
Close to the result of the expected result in sheet.
In some implementations, the quantum measurement is that positive operator value measures.
In some implementations, this method further includes:Training quantum processor is provided, for making in machine learning task
With.
In some implementations, determine the measurement consequence whether away from the known results to further including in set a distance:
Calculate the relative entropy measured between consequence and known results.
In some implementations, determine the measurement consequence whether away from the known results to further including in set a distance:
Execute chi square test.
The one or more embodiments of the detail of the theme of this specification are elaborated in the accompanying drawings and the description below.According to saying
Bright book, drawings and claims, other features, aspect and advantage of this theme will be evident.
Description of the drawings
Fig. 1 is the flow chart of the example iteration for obtaining hard optimization or the solution for inferring task.
Fig. 2A is for QSM of the training with weak plasticity to obtain the example process of hard optimization or the solution for inferring task
Flow chart.
Fig. 2 B are the flow charts of the learn-by-example processing for the concealed nodes of QSM of the training with weak plasticity.
Fig. 2 C are the flow charts of the exemplary non-study processing of the concealed nodes for QSM of the training with weak plasticity.
Fig. 2 D are the flow charts of the learn-by-example processing for the control node of QSM of the training with weak plasticity.
Fig. 2 E are the flow charts of the exemplary non-study processing of the control node for QSM of the training with weak plasticity.
Fig. 3 A are for QSM of the training with strong plasticity to obtain the example process of hard optimization or the solution for inferring task
Flow chart.
Fig. 3 B are the flow charts of the learn-by-example processing for the node of QSM of the training with strong plasticity.
Fig. 3 C are the flow charts of the exemplary non-study processing of the node for QSM of the training with strong plasticity.
Fig. 4 A are based on the superconductive quantum bit in the chimera connectivity of graph, showing for the QSM with weak plasticity
The schematic diagram of example property quantum processor 400.
Fig. 4 B are based on the superconductive quantum bit in the chimera connectivity of graph, showing for the QSM with strong plasticity
The schematic diagram of example property quantum processor 400.
Fig. 5 A are the schematic diagrames for the one-dimensional chain for showing the quantum bit in quantum processor, which is used for not
In the case of introducing auxiliary quantum bit, execute the quantum inference process with strong quantum plasticity.
Fig. 5 B are the schematic diagrames for the one-dimensional chain for showing the quantum bit in quantum processor, and the quantum processor is for executing
Quantum inference process with strong quantum plasticity.
Fig. 6 A are the schematic diagrames for showing the structure and interaction of three quantum bits in quantum processor.
Fig. 6 B are the schematic diagrames for showing the structure and interaction of three quantum bits in quantum processor.
Specific implementation mode
Outline
Machine learning and statistical modeling can be used to encode the dependence in learning model between variable, this can be used in turn
The value of known variables is inferred in the case of the value of given known variables.Learning model based on energy can be by by scalar energy
It is associated with the configuration of each of variable, to capture this dependence.In the statistical inference stage, the variable observed can be clamped
Certain values, and find the configuration so that the surplus variable of scalar energy minimization.Then, study may include finding energy letter
Number, the wherein configuration of variable observed or right value are endowed (assigned) more than unobservable or incorrect configuration
Low energy.The quality of utilisable energy function can be measured using loss function.
For example, Boltzmann machine can be used to learn the probability distribution in one group of input.Boltzmann machine is a kind of god
Through network comprising the hiding and visible node being connected with weighting connection.During study is handled, training can be provided to network
Data, and learning rules can be followed to update connection weight.Study processing is related to updating repeatedly, until network reaches balance
Until state.Boltzmann machine utensil has scalar energy value associated with each state of network, and equilibrium state can be with energy
Local minimum in flow function is associated.
The information processing model of this specification and corresponding quantum hardware are considered to this based on energy
The popularization for practising quantum mechanical (regime) and nonequilibrium kinetics of model, for example, Boltzmann machine.The model amount of defining
Sub- statistical machine (" QSM ") can be used for for example by generating desired probability distribution using the mapping of dissipation quantum dynamics
It solves hard optimization and infers task.
QSM is made of three different classes of strong interaction degree of freedom, including visible vector subspace, hiding quantum are empty
Between and control quantum subspace or subsystem.It can be referred to as a kind of quantum bit or section per one kind strong interaction degree of freedom
Point.QSM can be used in, and there is unique non-equilibrium traversal (ergodic) that may be programmed for attracting stable state to open in the space of density operator
High-volume sub- Markov chain defines.It is steady that the solution of information handling task (such as statistical inference or optimization task) can be encoded to attraction
In the quantum statistics of state, wherein can be by making the energy minimization of true or imaginary quantum Hamiltonian be pushed away to execute quantum
It is disconnected.QSM can be constructed so that the dynamics of control freedom degree ensures QSM in desired finite mixtures time τ close to effectively steady
State executes dissipation quantum engineering without bathing engineering without acquisition (access to) any bath degree of freedom, i.e. control freedom degree.
All statistical properties of the state can be derived with desired precision δ.Furthermore, it is possible to the visible node of training and concealed nodes it
Between QSM coupling, to solve hard optimization or infer task.For example, QSM can be trained to couple so that on visible node
Desirably precision ∈ samples arbitrariness probability distributing letter to the quantum statistics amount of the associated attraction stable state of one group of quantum observable quantity
Number.
Similar to classical machine learning, quantum deduction is the important process in QSM study.Quantum deduction may relate to clamp
The value or consequence of one group of quantum observable quantity, and find the surplus variable for causing the low-rank of quantum hamiltonian system to attract stable state
Configuration.These low order stable states can be counted as the energy function minimized, respectively represent under balance or non-equilibrium mechanism
The ground state of true or imaginary hamiltonian system.
QSM introduces the concept of quantum plasticity, after being inspired as the biology for being known as neuromorphic computing architecture
The quantum counterpart of von Karman framework can become plastic or actual biological neural network, such as neopallium
In be known as it is those of plastic.QSM can be realized in quantum hardware, to realize the quantum plasticity in quantum processor.
The general introduction of QSM algorithms
In order to obtain given hard optimization or infer that the deduction of iteration quantum and quantum engineering may be implemented in the solution of task, QSM
It practises and non-learning algorithm.For example, in some implementations, QSM can execute iteration several times, to be carried out to desired probability distribution
Sampling.Fig. 1 shows the flow chart of the single iteration of the example process 100 for obtaining hard optimization or the solution for inferring task.It can
It is solved so that example process 100 is performed a plurality of times.Quantum infers that task can be converted to quantum Machine Learning Problems, can
To indicate in machine readable form.
Quantized system prepares (step 102) with incident quantum state comprising of QSM density operators and heating bath degree of freedom
Amount product, and can be provided by following formula (1).
In formula (1), ρVHG(0) it is visible v, hides h and control the stochastic regime of g nodes, and ρB(0) it is initial
The Warm status of the heating bath of time.In some implementations, ρVHG(0) it is Entangled State.
In some implementations, QSM may rely on one or more auxiliary controls as quantum governor (QG) node
Node.QG nodes can indicate the set of all non-information with quantum degree of freedom, and manage the information with degree of freedom
With the interaction of heating bath.It, can be with by prosecutor using QG nodes as control node for the Hamiltonian being unrelated with the time
Formula increases the interaction between QSM systems and bath, to create the stable state of robust and reduce required incorporation time.For depending on
In the Hamiltonian of time, error correction strategy can be further considered as using QG nodes as control node.QG nodes can
With the execution of enabled dissipation quantum engineering in the case of no bath engineering, such as further described below with reference to step (106)
's.
Quantized system develops under the action of linear quantum dynamics map.In some embodiments, linear quantum is dynamic
Mechanics Mapping can be the member of the subset of linear quantum dynamics mapping, in the case where initial system and bath are separable hypothesis
It is completely positive and keeps track.In other embodiments, QSM can be expanded in more generally linear Hermite
Develop under the action of mapping, because general linear mapping can be constructed by subtracting two completely positive quantum figures.Quantum figure
Can (step 104) be caused by visible, hiding and QG nodes and the Hamiltonian of they and the interaction of heating bath.QSM with
Total Hamiltonian of heating bath interaction can be provided by following formula (2).
Htot=HVHG+HB+HVHG-B (2)
In general, QSM, heating bath and its Hamiltonian of interaction can depend on the time.The quantum state of QSM
Evolution can be expressed as being provided by following formula (3).
It in formula (3), depends on, for example, QSM and its being depended on respectively with the Hamiltonian of the interaction of heating bath
The still time of time is unrelated, and unitary operator can be expressed as Or Utot(t)
=exp[-itHtot].Assuming that system and bath are initially separable, then the effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum trajectory
The dynamics of holding maps, and is provided by following formula (4).
In formula (4),And
By quantum figure at one group of output state can be closed under convex combination and multiplication.
Quantum state develops under the action of quantum figure.Quantum dynamics can be designed using QG degree of freedom so that amount
Subsystem executes dissipation engineering (step 106) in the case of no bath engineering.QG nodes can promote engineering-environment, and phase
The control parameter answered is QG the Interaction Hamiltonians.
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss(step 106).For acting on
The quantum dynamics mapping of any non-traversal or weak traversal with degree of freedom information, there may be the auxiliary for including auxiliary node
System so that the quantum dynamics of the information with degree of freedom became traversing by force.Above for as described in step 102, QSM can
To be configurable to include a kind of quantum governor auxiliary node comprising carry the non-information of degree of freedom.In addition to management is with certainly
Except interaction by the information and heating bath spent, quantum governor pattern may insure to include the amount of the information with degree of freedom
Subsystem has strong ergalicnty.In addition, for interacting with controllable but well-characterized heating bath, steady with one or more
State, include with degree of freedom information any programmable multiagent open quantum system, quantum governor auxiliary system can
To generate uniquely programmable quantum attractor in the information with system with one degree of freedom.Therefore, by construction, QSM can have
There is unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached
The existence and uniqueness of stable state can enable to introduce the learning model based on energy in quantum state.It can
Will be encoded in the attraction stable state of QSM to the solution of optimization or statistical Inference.Attract stable state can be with corresponding imaginary Kazakhstan
The ground state of close amount is consistent, can be used for encoding the solution of the problem.Quantum thermodynamic approach can be used, it is non-equilibrium to define
The imaginary Hamiltonian of system and corresponding partition function.The formula in face can be written as by fabricating the explicit relation of Hamiltonian
(5) given by.
Relationship given above can be used, to restore density operator ρss=ρVHG(τ)。
Above-mentioned relation, such as formula (1)-(5), can provide scalability for QSM, because any quantum on QSM is surveyed
Amount is all the ground state from imaginary Hamiltonian rather than HVHGThe true of (τ) hot is sampled.On the contrary, Quantum annealing device or exhausted
Volume of the hot quantum computer dependent on the heat distribution of the ground state of the free Hamiltonian of physics or any other form of its eigenstate
Code and reading.Particularly, simulation quantum processor will infer that the solution of task be encoded to it is with the small minimum clearance of exemplary indices,
The balance ground state provided under finite temperature by ANALOGY OF BOLTZMANN DISTRIBUTION.The size for increasing considered inference problems (and can not
Increase the size for solving the problems, such as the quantum processor needed for this with avoiding) reduce gap so that and simulation quantum processor is discontented
The required scalability condition of foot.
Quantum can be executed in stable state measure, measured by positive operator value in most typically formal uniquely attracting
(POVM) (step 108) is provided.It measures consequence and provides the hard optimization that can be encoded in unique attraction stable state or inference problems
Solution.The form that consequence can be machine readable is measured, and corresponding to imaginary HamiltonianGround state it is effective
Energy value.
During processing 100, quantized system can execute Hamilton in finite time and develop.Therefore, ground state fidelity can
Energy disunity (less than unity), and the processing may must be repeated to obtain the reasonable statistical information about solution.
In some implementations, therefore quantized system can repeat the above, to obtain hard optimization or to infer the last solution of task, or
Person is to sample desired probability distribution.
QSM can be trained on one group of training data, to determine the system parameter values of training.Once QSM is had trained,
QSM can receive new hard optimization or deduction task, and using the systematic parameter of training, carry out processing system input, to obtain
Hard optimization or the solution for inferring task.In training managing, QSM may be implemented iteration quantum and infer and quantum machine learning and non-
Learning algorithm.
Fig. 2A is shown at the example for QSM of the training with weak plasticity to obtain hard optimization or the solution for inferring task
The flow chart of reason 200.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, for example, classic computer or quantum processor or its
Combination.For example, the quantum hardware 400 of following Fig. 4 A can execute processing 200.
Processing 200 can be counted as self-organizing process comprising be respectively used to train the two of concealed nodes and control node
A individual iterative processing, wherein each iterative processing includes two alternating phases of study and non-study.It is instructed in concealed nodes
Practice processing and input quantum nodes, output quantum nodes, hiding quantum nodes and the controlled quentity controlled variable during control node training managing
The state of child node is described in detail and is described in the table immediately below in Fig. 2 B-2E.
Quantized system receives training data (step 201).Training data may include that input training data and output are trained
Data.In some implementations, training data can be some known probabilities distribution of input data.QSM can be exposed to training
Data, to learn the statistics behavior for the additional pattern for how predicting not include in the training data.
Quantized system prepares (step 202) with incident quantum state comprising the QSM density that above-mentioned formula (1) provides is calculated
The tensor product of son and heating bath degree of freedom.In formula (1), ρVHG(0) it is visible v, hides h and control the stochastic regime of g nodes,
And ρB(0) be initial time heating bath Warm status.In some implementations, ρVHG(0) it is Entangled State.When state prepares, control
Node processed can close, and heating bath may be uncontrollable.
In some implementations, control node is quantum governor (QG) node.QG nodes can indicate free with quantum
The set of all non-information of degree, and manage the interaction of information and heating bath with degree of freedom.For being unrelated with the time
Hamiltonian, can be increased in a controlled manner using QG nodes as control node QSM systems and bath between interaction,
To create the stable state of robust, and reduce required incorporation time.For the Hamiltonian depending on the time, using QG nodes as
Control node can be considered as further error correction strategies.QG nodes can be dissipation quantum that can be in the case of no bath engineering
The execution of engineering.
QSM training managings can be iterative processing comprising be respectively used to train two of concealed nodes and control node
Individually processing, wherein each iterative processing includes two alternating phases of study and non-study..Quantized system it is thus determined that be into
Enter concealed nodes training stage or control node training stage (step 203).If previous iteration includes concealed nodes instruction
Practice the stage, then quantized system can enter the control node training stage, and if previous iteration includes control node training
Stage, then quantized system can enter the concealed nodes training stage.For clarity, below processing 200 is described as existing first
Step 203, which determines, enters the concealed nodes training stage.
Quantized system enters the concealed nodes training stage, wherein the concealed nodes of QSM is trained to be received iteratively to capture
Training dataset all or subset system variable between advanced dependence.It, can during the concealed nodes training stage
It is coupled with closing control node, i.e., control node does not interact with logical node.The concealed nodes training stage make sense for
Indicate the joint approximate diagonalization of visible and concealed nodes dynamic quantum Markov chains.The concealed nodes training stage can also be by
It is considered corresponding with the classical quantum of clustering technique (such as principal component analysis or spectral clustering).
After step 203 determines and enters the concealed nodes training stage, system determines that the study stage into concealed nodes goes back
It is non-study stage (step 204).In some implementations, if previous iteration includes the non-study stage, quantized system can
To enter the study stage, and if previous iteration includes the study stage, quantized system will enter the non-study stage.It is clear
Processing 200 is described as determining into the study stage in step 204 first by Chu Qijian below.
Quantized system is executed handles (step 205) for the study of concealed nodes.It is more fully described below with reference to Fig. 2 B
For training the study of concealed nodes to handle.
Quantized system is executed handles (step 206) for the non-study of concealed nodes.It is retouched in more detail below with reference to Fig. 2 C
It states for training the non-study of concealed nodes to handle.
Quantized system can execute one handled for the study processing of concealed nodes and the non-study for concealed nodes
Secondary or successive ignition (step 205 and 206), for training concealed nodes temporarily.After interim training concealed nodes, system can
Enter the control node training stage to be determined in step 203.
Quantized system can enter the control node training stage, wherein training the control node of QSM, and can allow to locate
Device itself is managed to adapt to manipulate the environmental fluctuating ignored in the concealed nodes training stage.The control node training stage is mathematically
It makes sense as such stage, thus control node itself adjustment is with orthogonal otherwise and lead to quantum processor
Between the outer invariant subspace freezed, create best overlapping.
After step 203 determines and enters the control node training stage, system determines the study stage into control node
Also it is non-study stage (step 207).In some implementations, if previous iteration includes the non-study stage, quantized system
The study stage can be entered, and if previous iteration includes the study stage, quantized system can enter the non-study stage.
For clarity, below processing 200 is described as determining in step 207 first and enters the study stage.
Quantized system is executed handles (step 208) for the study of control node.It is more fully described below with reference to Fig. 2 D
Study for Training Control node is handled.
Quantized system is executed handles (step 209) for the non-study of control node.It is retouched in more detail below with reference to Fig. 2 E
State the non-study processing for Training Control node.
Quantized system can execute one handled for the study processing of control node and the non-study for control node
Secondary or successive ignition (step 208 and 209) is used for the interim training of control node.Control node it is interim after training, be
System can be determined in step 203 enters the concealed nodes training stage.
It can be iteratively performed the processing 200 for QSM of the training with weak plasticity, to improve the performance of QSM.Work as quantum
When system exhausts its training data resource, processing 200 terminates.For example, when being sampled from probability-distribution function (PDF), when
Gauge (such as card side's divergence (divergence) or relative entropy) can be used to determine the sampling PDF obtained away from ideal
When giving in set a distance of PDF, which can terminate.
Fig. 2 B show the flow of the learn-by-example processing 210 of the concealed nodes for QSM of the training with weak plasticity
Figure.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer or quantum processor, or combinations thereof.For example,
The quantum hardware 400 of following figure 4 A can execute processing 210.
Quantized system receives the subset (step 211) for the training data that system is supplied in the step 201 with reference to figure 2A.
Quantized system configures visible, hiding and control node (step 212).It can be seen that outputting and inputting node can be clamped
To the subset of training data, and concealed nodes by solution clamp and be allowed to oneself adjustment with meet give they environment it is mutual
The data structure of effect.Control node coupling is closed.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 213) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can be taken
Certainly in the time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can indicate
Dynamics mapping is kept for quantum trajectory, such as is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.Such as above for Fig. 1
Step 108 described in, by construction, QSM, which can have, unique attracts stable state ρss, can be asymptotically reached
Quantized system quantum carries out concealed nodes mechanically to sample (step 214).(POVM) is measured by positive operator value
The quantum for providing its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 215) within set a distance.It can use
Statistical technique is post-processed and is tested to measuring consequence with (such as chi square test and relative entropy) is measured.For example, can test
Card measures the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system increase in the steady state effectively or open two quantum degree of freedom coupling (step 216).
Fig. 2 C show the exemplary non-study processing 220 of the concealed nodes for QSM of the training with weak plasticity
Flow chart.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer/or quantum processor/or combinations thereof.Example
Such as, the quantum hardware 400 of Fig. 4 A below can execute processing 220.
Quantized system configures visible, hiding and control node (step 221).It is visible to output and input node and hide
Node can be clamped by solution, and be allowed to self adjustment to meet the data structure for giving its environmental interaction.The step
It can be counted as " dreaming of " stage.It can be coupled with closing control node.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 222) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can depend on
Time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum rail
Mark keeps dynamics mapping, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.As above for Fig. 1
Described in step 108, by construction, QSM can have unique attraction stable state ρss, can be asymptotically reached
Quantized system quantum to it is visible output and input and concealed nodes carry out mechanically sample (step 223).Pass through
The quantum that positive operator value measurement (POVM) provides its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 224) within set a distance.It can use
Statistical technique is post-processed and is tested to measuring consequence with (such as chi square test and relative entropy) is measured.For example, can test
Card measures the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system reduces the coupling (step 216) of two quantum degree of freedom that are effective in the steady state or opening.
The non-study stage of concealed nodes training can cause to be directed to data noise (pollution in data) and system noise
The robustness of the two.
Fig. 2 D show the flow of the learn-by-example processing 230 of the control node for QSM of the training with weak plasticity
Figure.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer or quantum processor, or combinations thereof.For example,
The quantum hardware 400 of following Fig. 4 A can execute processing 230.
Quantized system receives the second subset (step for the training data that system is supplied in the step 201 with reference to figure 2A
231)。
Quantized system configures visible, hiding and control node (step 232).It can be seen that outputting and inputting node is clamped to instruction
Practice data, and concealed nodes are clamped to the value learnt during the concealed nodes training stage.Control node is clamped by solution, and
And be allowed to self adjustment and give the data structure of its environmental interaction to meet and reach stable state, this learns in concealed nodes
Stage is not carried out.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 233) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can depend on
Time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum rail
Mark keeps dynamics mapping, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.Such as above for Fig. 1
Step 108 described in, by construction, QSM, which has, unique attracts stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached
Quantized system quantum carries out control node mechanically to sample (step 234).(POVM) is measured by positive operator value
The quantum for providing its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 235) within set a distance.It can use
Statistical technique is post-processed and is tested to measuring consequence with (such as chi square test and relative entropy) is measured.For example, can test
Card measures the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system increase in the steady state effectively or open two quantum governor degree of freedom coupling (step 236).
Fig. 2 E show the exemplary non-study processing 240 of the concealed nodes for QSM of the training with weak plasticity
Flow chart.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer or quantum processor, or combinations thereof.Example
Such as, the quantum hardware 400 of Fig. 4 A below can execute processing 240.
Quantized system configures visible, hiding and control node (step 241).It is visible to output and input node and control
Node is clamped by solution, and is allowed to self adjustment to meet the data structure for giving its environmental interaction.Concealed nodes quilt
It is clamped to the value learnt during the concealed nodes training stage.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 242) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can depend on
Time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum rail
Mark keeps dynamics mapping, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.As above for Fig. 1
Described in step 108, by construction, QSM has unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached as
Quantized system quantum to it is visible output and input and concealed nodes carry out mechanically sample (step 243).Pass through
The quantum that positive operator value measurement (POVM) provides its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 244) within set a distance.It can use
Statistical technique is post-processed and is tested to measuring consequence with (such as chi square test and relative entropy) is measured.For example, can test
Card measures the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system reduces the coupling (step 225) of two quantum degree of freedom that are effective in the steady state or opening.
The non-study stage of concealed nodes training can cause to be directed to data noise (pollution in data) and system noise
The robustness of the two.
The processing 200 described above with reference to Fig. 2A is (and therefore above respectively with reference to the son of figure 2B, 2C, 2D and 2E description
Processing 210,220,230 and the form for 240) leading to weak plasticity, because hardware self can be adapted in previous training number
The new environmental condition being previously encountered according to concentration or new problem example.When QG degree of freedom is in the second study and non-study stage
When being settled out in particular configurations under the stable state of whole system, promote above-mentioned adjustment and its corresponding micro- via QG degree of freedom
Tune ability, and the above-mentioned adjustment of the overall improvement of iteration several times of algorithm and its corresponding fine-tuning capability can be passed through.By substantially
Change the framework of message handler to essentially contribute to surmount distribution using the auxiliary degree of freedom of new conditions and data class, QG
To extensive (generalization) of the data of typical concealed nodes done work.
In some implementations, all between all visible and hiding quantum bit of determination that can be by enhancing QG nodes
Mutual and inner couplings roles, to realize strong plasticity.
Fig. 3 A are shown at the example for QSM of the training with strong plasticity to obtain hard optimization or the solution for inferring task
The flow chart of reason 300.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, for example, classic computer or quantum processor or its
Combination.For example, the quantum hardware 401 of following Fig. 4 B can execute processing 300.
Processing 300 is considered self-organizing processing comprising the study for training concealed nodes and control node
With two individual iteration phases of non-study, wherein each iteration phase includes first for concealed nodes and control node
Study stage and the second study stage or the first non-study stage and the second non-study rank for concealed nodes and control node
Section.Input quantum nodes, output quantum nodes, hiding quantum nodes during study stage and non-study stage and controlled quentity controlled variable
The state of child node is described in detail in figs. 3b and 3c, and is described in the table immediately below.
Quantized system receives training data (step 301).Training data includes input training data and output training data.
In some implementations, training data can be some known probabilities distribution of input data.QSM can be exposed to training data,
To learn the statistics behavior for the additional pattern for how predicting not include in training data.
Prepare quantized system (step 302) with incident quantum state, including the QSM density operators that above-mentioned formula (1) provides
With the tensor product of heating bath degree of freedom.In formula (1), ρVHG(0) it is visible v, hides h and control g node stochastic regimes, and
ρB(0) be initial time heating bath Warm status.In some implementations, ρVHG(0) it is Entangled State.When state prepares, control section
It puts and its is prepared using default setting with the interaction of back end, and heating bath may be uncontrollable.
In some implementations, control node is quantum governor (QG) node.QG nodes are indicated with quantum degree of freedom
The set of all non-information, and manage the interaction of information and heating bath with degree of freedom.For the Kazakhstan independently of the time
Close amount, increases the interaction between QSM systems and bath using QG nodes as control node, to create Shandong in a controlled manner
The stable state of stick simultaneously reduces required incorporation time.For the Hamiltonian depending on the time, using QG nodes as control node
Can be considered as further error correction strategies.The enabled execution without bathing the dissipation quantum engineering of engineering of QG nodes.For by force may be used
Plasticity, the coupler-that QG nodes serve as all types data quantum bit are visible and hiding.
QSM training managings can be iterative processing, include the study for training concealed nodes and control node and non-
Two practised individually processing.Quantized system is it is thus determined that be into the study stage or to enter non-study stage (step 303).
In some embodiments, if previous iteration includes the study stage, quantized system can enter the non-study stage, and such as
The previous iteration of fruit includes the non-study stage, then quantized system can enter the study stage.It for clarity, below will processing
300 are described as being determined first into the study stage in step 303.
Quantized system enters the study stage, wherein training the concealed nodes and control node of QSM, is connect with iteratively capturing
Advanced dependence between the system variable of all or subset of the training dataset of receipts.During the study stage, it is seen that input
It is clamped to training data with output node.
After step 303 determines and enters the concealed nodes training stage, system enters the first study stage of concealed nodes, and
And quantized system executes and handles (step 304) for the first study of concealed nodes.Use is more fully described below with reference to Fig. 3 B
In the first study processing of training concealed nodes.
Quantized system enters the second study stage for control node, and quantized system is executed for control node
Second study handles (step 305).The second study processing for Training Control node is more fully described below with reference to Fig. 3 B.
Quantized system can execute the primary or more of the first and second study processing for concealed nodes and control node
Secondary iteration (step 304 and 305), for hiding the interim training with control node.Hiding the interim training with control node
Later, system can be determined in step 303 enters the non-learning training stage.
Quantized system enters the non-study stage.During the non-study stage, it is seen that output and input node by solution clamp,
And self adjustment is allowed to meet the data structure for giving its environmental interaction.
When step 303 determines and enters the non-study stage, system enters the first non-study stage for concealed nodes, and
And quantized system executes and handles (step 306) for the first of concealed nodes the non-study.It is more fully described below with reference to Fig. 3 C
The first non-study processing for training concealed nodes.
Quantized system is executed handles (step 307) for the second of control node the non-study.It is more detailed below with reference to Fig. 3 C
Second non-study processing of the ground description for Training Control node.
Quantized system can execute one for training the first and second of concealed nodes and control node the non-study processing
Secondary or successive ignition (step 306 and 307).Control node it is interim after training, system can be determined in step 203 to be entered
The concealed nodes training stage.
It can be iteratively performed the processing 300 for QSM of the training with strong plasticity, to improve the performance of QSM.Equivalent
When subsystem has exhausted its training data resource, processing 300 can terminate.For example, when being adopted from probability-distribution function (PDF)
When sample, when can use gauge (such as card side's divergence or relative entropy) determine obtain sampling PDF away from ideal PDF to
When in set a distance, which can terminate.
Fig. 3 B show the flow chart of the learn-by-example processing 310 of the node for QSM of the training with strong plasticity.It should
Processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer or quantum processor, or combinations thereof.For example, following
The quantum hardware 401 of Fig. 4 B can execute processing 310.
Quantized system receives the subset (step 311) for the training data that system is supplied in the step 301 with reference to figure 3A.
Quantized system entered for the first study stage, and configured visible, hiding and control node (step 312).It is visible defeated
Enter the subset that training data is clamped to output node, and concealed nodes are clamped by solution, and self adjustment is allowed to full
Foot gives the data structure of its environmental interaction.Control node coupling is clamped to some default value or previous non-study rank
The equilibrium state of section.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 313) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can depend on
Time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum
Track keeps dynamics mapping, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.Such as above for Fig. 1 the step of
Described in 108, by construction, QSM has unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached, as
Mechanical sampling (step 314) is carried out to quantized system quantization to concealed nodes.It is measured by positive operator value
(POVM) quantum for providing its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.Quantum in the steady state measures
Later, system obtains the bit string configuration of concealed nodes, will be used in the second study stage.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 315) in set a distance.System can be used
The measurement of meter technology and such as chi square test and relative entropy, to be post-processed and be tested to measuring consequence.For example, can verify
Measure the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system increase in the steady state effectively or open two quantum degree of freedom coupling (step 316).
Quantized system entered for the second study stage, and configured visible, hiding and control node (step 317).It can be seen that input
It is clamped to training data with output node, concealed nodes are clamped to the measured value from the first study stage, and control
Node is allowed to self adjustment to meet the data structure for giving its environmental interaction.
Quantized system allow configuration quantum state by visible, hiding and QG nodes Hamiltonian and they with heat
Develop (step 318) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by the interaction of bath.With the QSM of heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, the Hamiltonian of QSM, heating bath and its interaction can depend on
Time.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum
Track keeps dynamics mapping, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.As above for Fig. 1
Described in step 108, by construction, QSM has unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached, as
Mechanical sampling (step 319) is carried out to quantized system quantization to control node.It is measured by positive operator value
(POVM) quantum for providing its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 320) in set a distance.System can be used
The measurement of meter technology and such as chi square test and relative entropy, to be post-processed and be tested to measuring consequence.For example, can verify
Measure the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system increase in the steady state effectively or open two quantum degree of freedom coupling (step 321).
Fig. 3 C show the flow of the exemplary non-study processing 320 of the node for QSM of the training with strong plasticity
Figure.The processing is described as being executed by classical processor, such as classic computer or quantum processor, or combinations thereof.For example,
The quantum hardware 401 of following Fig. 4 B can execute processing 320.
Quantized system entered for the first non-study stage, and configured visible, hiding and control node (step 321).It is visible
It outputs and inputs node and hiding node to be clamped by solution, and is allowed to self adjustment and gives its environment phase interaction to meet
Data structure.Control node coupling is clamped to some default value or the previously equilibrium state in study stage.
Quantized system allows the quantum state of configuration in the phase interaction by visible, hiding and QG nodes and they and heating bath
Develop (step 322) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by Hamiltonian.QSM and heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, when QSM, heating bath and its Hamiltonian of interaction can depend on
Between.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum trajectory
Dynamics mapping is kept, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.Such as above for Fig. 1 the step of
Described in 108, by construction, QSM has unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached, as
Mechanical sampling (step 323) is carried out with visible node to quantized system quantization to hiding.It is surveyed by positive operator value
The quantum that amount (POVM) provides its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.Quantum in the steady state is surveyed
After amount, system obtains the bit string configuration of concealed nodes, will be used in the second study stage.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 324) in set a distance.System can be used
The measurement of meter technology and such as chi square test and relative entropy, to be post-processed and be tested to measuring consequence.For example, can verify
Measure the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system reduces the coupling (step 325) of two quantum degree of freedom that are effective in the steady state or opening.
Quantized system entered for the second non-study stage, and configured visible, hiding and control node (step 326).Permission can
That sees outputs and inputs node and control node self adjustment, to meet the data structure for giving its environmental interaction.It is hidden
It hides node and is clamped to previous stable state.
Quantized system allows the quantum state of configuration in the phase interaction by visible, hiding and QG nodes and they and heating bath
Develop (step 327) under the action of linear quantum dynamics mapping caused by Hamiltonian.QSM and heating bath interaction
Total Hamiltonian can be provided by above formula (2).In general, when QSM, heating bath and its Hamiltonian of interaction can depend on
Between.The evolution of the quantum state of QSM can be provided by above formula (3).The effective power of QSM can be expressed as quantum trajectory
Dynamics mapping is kept, is provided by above formula (4).
After limited incorporation time, quantum state reaches desired attraction stable state ρss.Such as above for Fig. 1 the step of
Described in 108, by construction, QSM has unique attraction stable state ρss, it can always be asymptotically reached, as
Mechanical sampling (step 328) is carried out to quantized system quantization to visible node and control node.Pass through positive operator
The quantum that value measurement (POVM) provides its most typically form is measured and can be executed in stable state uniquely attracting.
Quantized system can determine measure consequence away from known results to (step 329) in set a distance.System can be used
The measurement of meter technology and such as chi square test and relative entropy, to be post-processed and be tested to measuring consequence.For example, can verify
Measure the expectation quality of consequence.
Quantized system reduces the coupling (step 330) of two quantum degree of freedom that are effective in the steady state or opening.
The non-study stage 320 prevents over-fitting, and can be considered be similar to make extensively in classical deep learning algorithm
To the negative contribution in sdpecific dispersion method.
Example quantum hardware
Fig. 4 is the signal of the two example quantum processors 400 and 401 for the QSM for being respectively provided with weak and strong quantum plasticity
Figure.The two schematic diagrames are based on the superconductive quantum bit in the chimera connectivity of graph.By processor realize quantum plasticity by
To the inspiration of biological neural network, such as those of it is known to be in the neocortex of plasticity and is still widely believed that according to classical
Physical law operates.Quantum plasticity can also be considered as the rear von Karman framework that biology inspires, it is known that nerve
Form computing architecture, however, it would be possible to become plastic and the classical physical law that places one's entire reliance upon, because they are to be based on
The transistor of CMOS.
Fig. 4 A are based on the superconductive quantum bit in the chimera connectivity of graph, showing for the QSM with weak plasticity
The schematic diagram of example property quantum processor 400.Processor includes 16 quantum bits 404, multiplies 3 elementary cell (unit by 2
Cells it) 402 indicates.Quantum bit is connected by programmable inductance coupler, as shown in the line for connecting different quantum bits.Often
Bar line can represent one or more couplers between a pair of of quantum bit.Connection can be ferromagnetic (+1) between lattice.
Connection can be arbitrary in lattice.By increasing the quantity of quantum bit, realize that the size of the processor of QSM can be stretched
Contracting.For example, processor can also include the greater amount of quantum bit indicated by greater amount of elementary cell, such as 4
Multiply 6 or more.
Quantum bit in processor indicates different degree of freedom classifications, and serves in the calculation different.Labeled as i
Quantum bit represent input quantum bit.In this example, there are four input quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for h is to hide quantum bit.In this example, there are four hide quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for o is output quantum bit.In this example, there are four export quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for g is control quantum bit.In some implementations, control quantum bit is quantum governor quantum bit.
In the example, there are four quantum governor quantum bits for the tool of quantum processor 400.Labeled as the inputting of i, h and o, hide and defeated
Go out quantum bit and indicate the information with degree of freedom, and is the logic quantum ratio of the calculating for being executed by quantum processor
It is special.The non-information with degree of freedom is indicated labeled as the quantum bit of g, and is to be programmed to execute quantum governor quantum ratio
The control quantum bit of special function.Control quantum bit is not involved in the calculating of configuration logic quantum bit.
Processor can be constructed such that quantum governor quantum bit manipulates data and (outputs and inputs) quantum ratio
Interaction between special and hiding quantum bit, while still allowing for straight between data quantum bit and hiding quantum bit
Connect interaction.This leads to weak quantum plasticity, provides about environmental condition, control interaction and label noise
Part robustness.
Fig. 4 B are based on the superconductive quantum bit in the chimera connectivity of graph, showing for the QSM with strong plasticity
The schematic diagram of example property quantum processor 401.Processor includes 20 quantum bits 404, multiplies 3 elementary cells 402 by 2 and indicates.
Quantum bit is connected by programmable inductance coupler, as shown in the line for connecting different quantum bits.Every line can represent one
One or more couplers between quantum bit.Connection can be ferromagnetic (+1) between lattice.Connection can be in lattice
It is arbitrary.By increasing the quantity of quantum bit, realize that the size of the processor of QSM can be telescopic.For example, processing
Device can also include the greater amount of quantum bit indicated by greater amount of elementary cell, such as 4 multiply 6 or more.
Quantum bit in processor indicates different degree of freedom classifications, and serves in the calculation different.Labeled as i
Quantum bit represent input quantum bit.In this example, there are four input quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for h is to hide quantum bit.In this example, there are four hide quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for o is output quantum bit.In this example, there are four export quantum bit for the tool of quantum processor 400.Label
Quantum bit for g is quantum governor quantum bit.In this example, quantum processor 401 is fully connected with eight
Quantum governor quantum bit.The quantum bit that inputs, hides and export labeled as i, h and o is for being held by quantum processor
The logic quantum bit of capable calculating.Quantum bit labeled as g is the work(for being programmed to execute quantum governor quantum bit
The control quantum bit of energy.Control quantum bit is not involved in the calculating of configuration logic quantum bit.The layer of QSM is restricted, and is made
It obtains and interaction is not present between data quantum bit or hiding quantum bit.
Processor can be constructed such that quantum governor quantum bit determines between data and concealed nodes completely
Interaction, without allowing the direct interaction between input and concealed nodes.This leads to strong plasticity, provides effective
Model is practised to realize the robustness about environmental condition, control interaction and label noise.
In some implementations, the logic quantum bit in quantum processor 400 and 401 and control quantum bit have identical
Construction.In other implementations, control quantum bit has simpler or less accurate structure than logic quantum bit.
Fig. 5 is the schematic diagram for the one-dimensional chain for showing two quantum bits in quantum processor, is inferred for executing quantum
Processing is to realize strong quantum plasticity.The one-dimensional chain of quantum bit can indicate two realities of the quantum processor 4401 of Fig. 4 B
It is existing.
Fig. 5 A are the schematic diagrames for the one-dimensional chain for showing the quantum bit in quantum processor, which is used for not
The quantum inference process with strong quantum plasticity is executed in the case of introducing auxiliary quantum bit.In this example, at quantum
The one-dimensional chain 502 and logic quantum bit 504 that reason device is controlled by the superconduction of double duty form.Quantum bit is sequentially numbered,
Logic quantum bit is indicated with those of odd-numbered, and is indicated control quantum bit with those of even-numbered or coupled tolerance
Sub- bit.In some implementations, coupler quantum bit can be quantum governor I type quantum bits.Logic quantum bit is
Data quantum bit or hiding quantum bit, in this case, it is for the sake of simplicity, we assume that there are equal distributions.In other words
Say, the control quantum bit of each even-numbered connects the logic quantum bit of two odd-numbereds, one of left side label for
As it can be seen that and one of right side label is quantum bit.
In this example, quantum learning process can be four ranks for including two study stages and two non-study stages
Iterative processing between section.In the first study stage, the quantum bit (that is, logic quantum bit) of odd-numbered is clamped to
Data are output and input, and controls quantum bit and is clamped in some stochastic regimes, as described in reference chart 3B above.
Hiding quantum bit is clamped to its steady-state value by two study stages, quantized system, keeps visible quantum bit still fixed, and permit
Perhaps self adjustment of the coupler quantum bit of even-numbered is referred to as described above with meeting specific input/output data structure
Described in Fig. 3 B.In essence, this stage can be envisaged in which that the physics of Herbie learning rules executes, which provides together
The node of igniting is wired together.In the first non-study stage, control node be it is fixed, and visible node not by
Clamp.In the case of given original state and the other factors of such as environmental interaction, processor can be allowed to reach new
Stable state.Hiding quantum bit is then fixed, and allows control and visible quantum bit that its own is reconfigured for new put down
Weighing apparatus.All training datas can be directed to and repeat the aforementioned four stage.In some implementations, quantized system can be from probability-distribution function
(PDF) it samples.In such an implementation, when determine from measure sampling PDF that consequence obtains away from ideal PDF in set a distance
When, algorithm will terminate.
In traditional deep learning algorithm in the widely used method to sdpecific dispersion, it is believed that the non-study stage with it is negative
Item is similar.The non-study stage prevents overfitting.Quantum infers that algorithm has many advantages, for example, the algorithm avoids having again
The extremely difficult calculating of the gradient of the log-likelihood function of miscellaneous degree #P.
Fig. 5 B are the quantum in the quantum processor shown for executing the quantum inference process with strong quantum plasticity
The schematic diagram of the one-dimensional chain of bit.In this example, quantum processor is by superconducting logic quantum bit 510 and control quantum bit
508 one-dimensional chain 506 forms.Algorithm and framework are similar to the algorithm and framework of Fig. 5 A, in addition to here logic and control quantum
Bit serves as pure quantum bit rather than coupler, and has independent tensor product structure, and by such as leading to for superconduction
It measures the conventional coupler of the mutual inductance of quantum bit and interacts with each other.In some implementations, these coupler quantum bits can
To be quantum governor II class quantum bits.Here, strong quantum plasticity can be explicit when reaching unique attraction stable state
Ground is encoded in the adaptive state of control quantum bit.It is certain between given logic quantum bit and control quantum bit
In the case of fixed interaction, the state for controlling quantum bit determines the logic quantum bit under balance or non-equilibrium stable state
Interaction.
Fig. 6 shows two example layouts for the coupling quantum bit in the one-dimensional middle strong quantum plasticity of structure.Figure
6A and 6B each provides the example layout of the coupling quantum bit of the schematic diagram for Fig. 6 A and Fig. 6 B.
Fig. 6 A show three coupling quantums in same quantum processor (for example, quantum processor 400 of Fig. 4 A)
The exemplary sequences of bit 601,602 and 603.Quantum bit 601,602 and 603 can correspond to three logic quantum bits, three
Control any combinations of quantum bit or logic and control quantum bit.In this example, each quantum bit can be superconduction
Quantum bit, and include Josephson's box 504.Each Josephson's box can include the Josephson junction for being connected to capacitance
(junction)605.The sequence of the quantum bit of coupling can also include greater number of coupling quantum bit.Quantum bit by
To the effect of external magnetic field B, external magnetic field B is along the e perpendicular to paper surface3Direction applies, and shows figure on a surface
Shape;The fields B symbolLabel.
In some implementations, control quantum bit is quantum governor I class quantum bits.Logic quantum bit can utilize than
Control the higher precision construction of quantum bit.Then, the control quantum bit of lower accuracy construction can be held with the cost of reduction
The function of row quantum governor quantum bit.In other implementations, it can be constructed using the structure other than Josephson's box
Control quantum bit, such as quantum wavelet transforms.
Fig. 6 B show three coupling quantums in same quantum processor (for example, quantum processor 401 of Fig. 4 B)
The exemplary sequence of bit 606,607 and 608.Quantum bit 606 and 608 is logic quantum bit, for being held by quantum processor
Capable calculating.Quantum bit 607 can be control quantum bit.Each quantum bit 606,607 and 608 can be Superconducting Quantum
Bit and include Josephson's box 609.Each Josephson's box may include Josephson junction 610.The sequence of quantum bit
It can also include greater number of coupling quantum bit.Large number of coupling quantum bit will be in control quantum bit and logic
Sequence alternate between quantum bit.Quantum bit is acted on by external magnetic field B, and external magnetic field B along vertically showing thereon
The e of the paper surface of figure is gone out3Direction applies;The fields B symbolLabel.One group of inductive coupler connection (laced) is being measured
Between sub- bit so that along e3-e3Direction coupling quantum bit.
In some implementations, control quantum bit is quantum governor II class quantum bits.Logic quantum bit can be according to
Higher than the precision construction of control quantum bit.Then, the lower control quantum bit of precision can be with the cost execution amount of reduction
The function of sub- governor quantum bit.In other implementations, control can be constructed using the structure other than Josephson's box
Quantum bit, such as quantum wavelet transforms.
Number described in this specification and/or quantum theme and the realization of digital function operation and quantum operation can be with
It realizes in Fundamental Digital Circuit, suitable quantum circuit or more generally, in quantum computing systems, it can be in tangible embodiment
In number and/or quantum computer software or firmware, it is (including public in this specification in number and/or quantum computer hardware
The structure and its equivalent structures opened) or the combination of one or more of which in realize.Term " quantum computing systems "
It can include but is not limited to quantum computer, quantum information processing system, quantum cryptography system or quantum simulation device.
The realization of number described in this specification and/or quantum theme can be embodied as one or more numbers and/or amount
Sub- computer program, that is, one of the number and/or quantum computer program instruction that are encoded on tangible non-instantaneous storage medium
Or multiple modules, the operation for being executed by data processing equipment or being controlled data processing equipment.Number and/or quantum computer
Storage medium can be machine-readable storage device, machine readable storage substrate, random or serial access storage device, one or
The combination of multiple quantum bits or one or more of which.Alternatively or additionally, program instruction can encode
It is encoded on the manually generated transmitting signal (for example, electricity, light or electromagnetic signal that machine generates) of number and/or quantum information,
The transmitting signal be generated with encode number and/or quantum information, be used for transmission suitable acceptor device for data at
Equipment is managed to execute.
Term quantum information and quantal data refer to the information for being carried, being kept in quantized system or being stored by quantized system
Or data, wherein minimum non-trivial system is quantum bit, that is, the system for defining the unit of quantum information.It should be understood that term
" quantum bit " includes all quantized systems that can be approximately suitably two-stage system in corresponding context.This quantum system
System may include multilevel system, for example, having two or more grades.For example, this system may include atom, electronics, light
Son, ion or superconductive quantum bit.In many realizations, base state ground and first excited state mark are calculated, but is answered
Work as understanding, wherein it is possible to identify other settings of calculating state with higher level excitation state.Term " data processing equipment "
Refer to number and/or quantal data processing hardware, and include for handle number and/or quantal data various equipment,
Device and machine, including such as programmable digital processor, programmable quantum processor, digital computer, quantum computer, more
A number and quantum processor or computer and combination thereof.The equipment can also or further comprise special-purpose
Logic circuit, such as FPGA (field programmable gate array), ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit) or quantum simulation device, that is, be designed
To simulate or generating the quantal data processing equipment of the information in relation to specific quantized system.In particular, quantum simulation device is specific
The quantum computer of purposes, it does not have the ability that Universal Quantum calculates that executes.In addition to hardware, which can optionally wrap
The code for number and/or quantum computer program creation performing environment is included, for example, constituting the code of processor firmware, agreement
Stack, data base management system, operating system or they one or more of combination.
It can also be referred to as or be described as program, software, software application, module, software module, script or code
Digital computer program can be write with any type of programming language, including compiling or interpretative code or statement or procedural language,
It can be disposed in any form, including or as stand-alone program or as module, component, subroutine be suitable in numerical calculation ring
Other units used in border.Can also be referred to as or be described as program, software, software application, module, software module,
The quantum computer program of script or code can be write with any type of programming language, including compiling or interpretative code or sound
Bright or procedural language, and translate into suitable quantum programming language, or can be write with quantum programming language, for example, QCL or
Quipper。
Number and/or quantum computer program can with but do not need to correspond to the file in file system.Program can store
(for example, the one or more feet stored in marking language document in preserving the part of file of other programs or data
Originally it), is exclusively used in the single file of discussed program or in multiple coordination files (for example, the one or more moulds of storage
The file of block, subprogram or code section).Number and/or quantum computer program can be disposed in a number or one
It is executed on quantum computer or is being distributed positioned at a website or across multiple websites and is being led to by number and/or quantal data
It is executed in the multiple numbers and/or quantum computer of communication network interconnection.Quantal data communication network is understood to can be with usage amount
The network of subsystem (for example, quantum bit) transmission of quantum data.In general, digital data communications network is unable to transmission quantity subnumber
According to, but quantal data communication network can be with both transmission of quantum data and numerical data.
Processing described in this specification and logic flow can be by one or more programmable digitals and/or quantum calculations
Machine execution, one or more of programmable digitals and/or quantum computer and one or more numbers and/or quantum processors
It operates together, where appropriate, one or more numbers and/or quantum computer program are executed, with by input number and quantum
Data are operated and generate output to execute function.Processing and logic flow can also be by dedicated logic circuits (for example, FPGA
Or ASIC) or quantum simulation device or dedicated logic circuit or quantum simulation device and one or more programmings number and/or quantum
The combination of computer executes, and equipment can also be embodied as dedicated logic circuit (for example, FPGA or ASIC) or quantum simulation
The combination of the number and/or quantum computer of device or dedicated logic circuit or quantum simulation device and one or more programmings.
Specific operation or the one or more number of action and/or the system of quantum computer are executed for " being configured as "
It is meant that the system has had mounted thereto software, firmware, hardware or combination thereof, system is promoted to hold in operation
Row operation or action.For to be configured to execute the one or more number and/or quantum computers of specific operation or action
Program is it is meant that one or more programs include when being executed by number and/or quantal data processing equipment, the equipment is promoted to hold
The instruction of row operation or action.Quantum computer can be received from digital computer and be instructed, and the instruction is when by quantum calculation equipment
When execution, the equipment is promoted to execute the operation or action.
The number and/or quantum calculation function of number and/or quantum computer program are adapted for carrying out based on general or specialized
The central numeral and/or quantum treatment unit of number and/or quantum processor or both or any other type.In general, central
Number and/or quantum treatment unit by from read-only memory, random access memory or suitable for transmit quantal data quantum system
Unite (for example, photon), or combinations thereof receive instruction and number and/or quantal data.
Number and/or quantum computer necessary component be performed for or the central processing unit of operating instruction and use
In one or more storage devices of store instruction and number and/or quantal data.Central processing unit and memory can be by special
It is supplemented or is incorporated in logic circuit or quantum simulation device.In general, number and/or quantum computer will also include or operable
Ground couple, with from for store number and/or quantal data one or more mass storage devices (for example, disk, magneto-optic
Disk, CD or suitable for store quantum information quantized system) receive number and/or quantal data, or to its transmission number and/
Or quantal data, or both.However, number and/or quantum computer need not have such device.
Suitable for storing the number and/or amount of number and/or quantum computer program instruction and number and/or quantal data
Sub- computer-readable medium includes Nonvolatile digital and/or quantum memory, the medium and storage device of form of ownership, as
Example includes:Semiconductor storage unit, such as EPROM, EEPROM and flush memory device;Disk, such as internal hard drive or removable
Disk;Magneto-optic disk;CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks;And quantized system, such as captured atom or electronics.It is appreciated that quantum is deposited
Reservoir is the device that can store quantal data for a long time with high fidelity and high efficiency, for example, light-substance interface, wherein making
It uses up and is used for transmission, be used to store and keep the quantum behavior of quantal data, such as superposition or quantum coherent using substance.
It can be in number and/or the production of quantum computer program to the control of various systems described in this specification or part thereof
It is realized in product, which includes being stored on one or more non-instantaneous machine readable storage mediums and can be at one or more
The instruction run in a number and/or quantum treatment device.It is each in system described in this specification or their part
It is a can be implemented as may include one or more numbers and/or quantum treatment devices and storage can operating instruction said with executing this
Equipment, method or the system of the memory of operation described in bright book.
Although this specification includes many concrete implementation details, these are not necessarily to be construed as that can require to protect
The limitation of the range of shield, but as the description for the feature that can be directed to specific embodiment.In the context of separate embodiments
Certain features described in this specification can also combine realization in single embodiment.On the contrary, above and below single embodiment
The various features of described in the text also can in various embodiments be realized individually or with any suitable sub-portfolio.In addition, although
Feature can be to be worked with certain combinations and be even initially so claimed, but in some cases may be used as described above
To remove the one or more features from combination claimed from combination, and combination claimed can be with needle
Variation to sub-portfolio or sub-portfolio.
Similarly, although depicting operation in the accompanying drawings with particular order, this is not construed as requiring with institute
The particular order shown sequentially executes these operations successively, or executes all operations shown, to realize desired result.
In some cases, it may be advantageous for multitask and parallel processing.In addition, the various system modules in above-described embodiment and component
Separation be understood not to be required for this separation in all embodiments, and it is to be understood that described program assembly
It usually can together be integrated in single software product, or be encapsulated in multiple software product with system.
The specific embodiment of theme has been described.Other embodiment is in the range of following claims.For example, right
Action described in it is required that can be executed in different order, and still realize desired result.As an example, in attached drawing
The processing of description particular order or sequentially realizes desired result successively shown in being not necessarily required to.In some cases, more
It may be advantageous for task and parallel processing.
Claims (77)
1. a kind of equipment, including:
Multiple logic quantum nodes, the logic quantum nodes include input quantum nodes, hide quantum nodes and output quantum
Node, wherein each logic quantum nodes in the multiple logic quantum nodes can be configured to conciliate clamp shape in clamp state
Switch between state;
Multiple control quantum nodes, each of the multiple control quantum nodes control quantum nodes can be configured to be to clamp
Switch between state, solution clamp state or non-interaction state, wherein under non-interaction state, controls quantum nodes
Any other node that it is coupled is not influenced;
Multiple quantum nodes couplers, each coupler are configured as coupling a pair of of quantum nodes, wherein:
Input quantity child node and hiding quantum nodes are at least coupled to the first control quantum nodes by the coupler;With
Hiding quantum nodes and output quantum nodes are at least coupled to the second control quantum nodes by the coupler.
2. equipment according to claim 1, wherein during the concealed nodes training stage, which is learning
Non-interaction state is in during sub-stage and non-study sub-stage, and during the control node training stage, the control
Quantum nodes are during study sub-stage and non-study sub-stage in solution clamp state.
3. equipment according to claim 2, wherein during the concealed nodes training stage, this is hidden quantum nodes and exists
Learn to be in solution clamp state during sub-stage and non-study sub-stage.
4. equipment according to claim 3, further includes:During the concealed nodes training stage, the input quantum
Node and output quantum nodes are in clamp state during learning sub-stage, and in solution pincers during non-study sub-stage
Position state.
5. equipment according to claim 2, wherein during the control node training stage, the hiding quantum nodes
Clamp state is in during study sub-stage and non-study sub-stage.
6. equipment according to claim 5, further includes:During the control node training stage, the input quantum
Node and output quantum nodes are in clamp state during learning sub-stage, and in solution pincers during non-study sub-stage
Position state.
7. equipment according to claim 1, wherein:
The first and second control quantum nodes are identical control quantum nodes;
Coupler is coupled to hiding quantum nodes by quantum nodes are inputted;With
Hiding quantum nodes are coupled to output quantum nodes by coupler.
8. equipment according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes include quantum
Governor node.
9. equipment according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes indicate carrying
The non-information of degree of freedom.
10. equipment according to claim 1, wherein the expression of one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes is held
Carry the information of degree of freedom.
11. equipment according to claim 1, wherein one or more of described quantum nodes are superconducting cells.
12. equipment according to claim 11, wherein one or more of described quantum nodes are by the pact that is connected in parallel
Se Fusen is tied and capacitor constructions.
13. equipment according to claim 11, wherein one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes are constructed
At with precision identical with the control superconducting cell.
14. equipment according to claim 11, wherein one or more of the multiple control superconducting cell is constructed
At with the precision lower than the logic superconducting cell.
15. equipment according to claim 11, wherein one or more in the superconductive quantum bit of the logic superconducting cell
A Josephson junction and capacitor constructions by being connected in parallel, and wherein it is described control superconducting cell superconductive quantum bit by
In parallel and/or concatenated more knot Josephson boxes, inductor and capacitor construction, to construct desired N grades of controllable control system.
16. equipment according to claim 1, wherein one or more of described quantum nodes coupler is inductance coupling
Clutch.
17. a kind of method for training quantum processor to solve machine learning inference problems, including:
Receive one group of training data;
Prepare arbitrary initial quantum state, wherein the initial quantum state be include multiple logic quantum nodes and control quantum section
The tensor product of the original state of the quantum processor of point and the state of bath;
Define the concealed nodes training stage of (i) quantum nodes, the control node training stage of (ii) quantum nodes, (iii) amount
The study sub-stage of child node, and (iv) quantum nodes non-study sub-stage;
Iteratively determination is into the concealed nodes training stage or to enter the control node training stage;
For wherein determining each iteration into the concealed nodes training stage:
Set control node to non-interaction state;
Iteratively change the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage.
18. according to the method for claim 17, wherein iteratively changing the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage packet
It includes, for each iteration before event is completed to occur:
Switch the study of quantum nodes and non-study stage;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
19. according to the method for claim 17, further including:For wherein determining that it enters the every of control node training stage
Secondary iteration:
Set control node to solution clamp state;
Iteratively change the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage.
20. according to the method for claim 19, wherein iteratively changing the study of quantum nodes and non-study sub-stage packet
It includes, for each iteration before event is completed to occur:
Switch the study of quantum nodes and non-study stage;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
21. according to the method for claim 17, wherein enter the every of the concealed nodes training stage for wherein determining
Secondary iteration, the method further include:During study sub-stage and non-study sub-stage, set the hiding quantum nodes to
Solve clamp state.
22. further including according to the method for claim 21, that will output and input quantum nodes during learning sub-stage to set
It is set to clamp state, and will output and input quantum nodes during non-study sub-stage and be set as solution clamp state.
23. according to the method for claim 22, wherein outputting and inputting quantum by described during the study sub-stage
Node is set as clamp state:The concealed nodes that output and input are clamped to the training data.
24. according to the method for claim 19, wherein enter the every of the control node training stage for wherein determining
Secondary iteration, the method further include:During the study sub-stage and the non-study sub-stage, by the hiding quantum section
Point is set as the clamp state.
25. according to the method for claim 20, wherein setting the hiding quantum nodes to the clamp state and including:
The hiding quantum nodes are clamped to the learning value of the concealed nodes training stage.
26. according to the method for claim 24, further including:Quantum nodes will be output and input during learning sub-stage to set
It is set to clamp state, and will output and input quantum nodes during non-study sub-stage and be set as solution clamp state.
27. according to the method for claim 26, wherein outputting and inputting quantum by described during the study sub-stage
Node is set as the clamp state:The concealed nodes that output and input are clamped to the training data.
28. according to the method for claim 17, the original state of the wherein quantum processor is entangled quantum state.
29. according to the method for claim 18, wherein evolution of the quantum state under the dissipation amount subgraph ensures
Reach stable state.
30. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the stable state is unique stable state.
31. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the stable state is nonequilibrium state.
32. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the non-equilibrium stable state has corresponding imaginary Hamiltonian,
Described in fabricate Hamiltonian power spectrum the solution of the Machine Learning Problems is encoded.
33. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the evolution of the quantum state is by quantum Governor Design, and nothing
The degree of freedom of any bath need to be obtained.
34. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the stable state substantially converges to the expectation state, and it is described
Expectation state provides the result substantially near the expected result.
35. according to the method for claim 18, wherein the quantum measurement is that positive operator value measures.
36. further including according to the method for claim 18, providing training quantum processor, in machine learning task
It uses.
37. according to the method for claim 18, wherein determining the measurement consequence whether in giving away from the known results
Further include in set a distance:Calculate the relative entropy measured between consequence and known results.
38. according to the method for claim 18, wherein determining the measurement consequence whether in giving away from the known results
Further include in set a distance:Execute chi square test.
39. a kind of equipment, including:
Multiple logic quantum nodes, the logic quantum nodes include input quantum nodes, hide quantum nodes and output quantum
Node, wherein each logic quantum nodes in the multiple logic quantum nodes can be configured to conciliate clamp shape in clamp state
Switch between state;
Multiple control quantum nodes, each of the multiple control quantum nodes control quantum nodes can be configured in clamp shape
Switch between state, solution clamp state or initial default state;
Multiple quantum nodes couplers, each coupler are configured as coupling a pair of of quantum nodes, wherein:
Input quantity child node and hiding quantum nodes are at least coupled to the first control quantum nodes by the coupler;With
Hiding quantum nodes and output quantum nodes are at least coupled to the second control quantum nodes by the coupler.
40. equipment according to claim 39, wherein described during the first study stage and the first non-study stage
Control quantum nodes are in clamp state, and during the second study stage and the second non-study stage, the control quantum
Node is in solution clamp state.
41. equipment according to claim 40, wherein described during the first study stage and the first non-study stage
It hides quantum nodes and is in solution clamp state.
42. equipment according to claim 41, further includes:During the first study stage, the input quantum section
Point and the output quantum nodes are in clamp state, and during the described first non-study stage, the input quantum section
Point and the output quantum nodes are in solution clamp state.
43. equipment according to claim 40, wherein in the second study stage and the second non-phase in study stage
Between, the hiding quantum nodes are in clamp state.
44. equipment according to claim 43, further includes:During the second study stage, the input quantum section
Point and the output quantum nodes are in clamp state, and during the described second non-study stage, the input quantum section
Point and the output quantum nodes are in solution clamp state.
45. equipment according to claim 40, wherein:
The first and second control quantum nodes are different control quantum nodes;
The input quantum nodes and the obstructed overcoupling device coupling of hiding quantum nodes;With
The hiding quantum nodes and the obstructed overcoupling device coupling of output quantum nodes.
46. equipment according to claim 40, wherein one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes include amount
Sub- governor node.
47. equipment according to claim 40, wherein the expression of one or more of the multiple control quantum nodes is held
Carry the non-information of degree of freedom.
48. equipment according to claim 40, wherein the expression of one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes is held
Carry the information of degree of freedom.
49. equipment according to claim 40, wherein the quantum nodes are superconducting cells.
50. equipment according to claim 49, wherein the utilization of one or more of described quantum nodes is connected in parallel
Josephson junction and capacitor constructions.
51. equipment according to claim 49, wherein one or more of the multiple logic quantum nodes are constructed
At with precision identical with the control superconducting cell.
52. equipment according to claim 49, wherein one or more of the multiple control superconducting cell is constructed
At with the precision lower than the logic superconducting cell.
53. equipment according to claim 49, wherein one or more superconductive quantum bits of the logic superconducting cell
Using the Josephson junction and capacitor constructions being connected in parallel, and the superconductive quantum bit profit of the wherein described control superconducting cell
With parallel connection and/or the more knot Josephson boxes being connected in series with, inductor and capacitor construction, controllably controlled with constructing desired N grades
System processed.
54. equipment according to claim 40, wherein one or more of the multiple quantum nodes coupler is electricity
Feel coupler.
55. a kind of method for training quantum processor to solve machine learning inference problems, including:
Receive one group of training data;
Prepare arbitrary initial quantum state, wherein the initial quantum state be include multiple logic quantum nodes and control quantum section
The tensor product of the original state of the quantum processor of point and the state of bath;
The first study stage of (i) quantum nodes is defined, the second of (ii) quantum nodes learn the stage, (iii) quantum nodes
First non-study sub-stage, and (iv) quantum nodes the second non-study sub-stage;
Iteratively determination is into the first study stage or to enter for the first non-study stage;
Enter each iteration in the first study stage for wherein determining:
Set control node to clamp state;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
56. method according to claim 55, further includes:
It is set as solution clamp state into the second study stage, including by control node;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
57. method according to claim 55, further includes:For wherein determining changing every time into the first non-study stage
Generation:
Set control node to clamp state;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
58. method according to claim 57, further includes:
It is set as solution clamp state into the second non-study stage, including by control node;
Under dissipation amount subgraph evolution quantum state is until reaching stable state, wherein encoding machine problem concerning study in the steady state
Solution;
Quantum is executed in stable state to measure;
Whether determining measurement consequence is in giving in set a distance away from known results;With
When measuring consequence when away from known results in set a distance, determine that completion event occurs.
59. method according to claim 57, wherein the method further includes:Enter the first study for wherein determining
Each iteration in stage, and for wherein determining each iteration into the first non-study stage, hiding quantum nodes are set
It is set to solution clamp state.
60. method according to claim 57, further includes:Enter changing every time for the first study stage for wherein determining
In generation, will output and input quantum nodes and be set as clamp state, and enters the every of the first non-study stage for wherein determining
Secondary iteration will output and input quantum nodes and be set as solution clamp state.
61. method according to claim 60, wherein for wherein determine enter first study the stage each iteration,
It quantum nodes will be output and input is set as clamp state and include:Quantum nodes will be output and input and be clamped to training data.
62. method according to claim 57, wherein the method further includes:For wherein entering for the second study stage
Each iteration, and for wherein enter the second non-study stage each iteration, set the hiding quantum nodes to
Clamp state.
63. method according to claim 60, further includes:It, will for wherein entering each iteration in the second study stage
It outputs and inputs quantum nodes and is set as clamp state, and for wherein entering each iteration in the second non-study stage, it will
It outputs and inputs quantum nodes and is set as solution clamp state.
64. method according to claim 61, wherein for wherein enter second study the stage each iteration, will be defeated
Enter and export quantum nodes and be set as clamp state and includes:The quantum nodes that output and input are clamped to the trained number
According to.
65. method according to claim 55, wherein for wherein determine each iteration into the first non-study stage,
Setting control node to clamp state further includes:Control node is clamped to the equilibrium state in the second study stage.
66. method according to claim 55, wherein the laggard of the second non-study stage is being completed for wherein determination
The each iteration for entering for the first study stage, setting control node to clamp state further includes:Control node is clamped to second
The equilibrium state in non-study stage.
67. the original state of method according to claim 53, the wherein quantum processor is entangled quantum state.
68. method according to claim 55, wherein the evolution of the quantum state under dissipation amount subgraph ensures to reach steady
State.
69. method according to claim 55, wherein the stable state is unique stable state.
70. method according to claim 55, wherein the stable state is nonequilibrium state.
71. method according to claim 70, wherein the non-equilibrium stable state has corresponding imaginary Hamiltonian, wherein
The power spectrum of the imaginary Hamiltonian encodes the solution of the Machine Learning Problems.
72. method according to claim 55, the wherein evolution of quantum state are by quantum Governor Design, without obtaining
The degree of freedom of any bath.
73. method according to claim 55, wherein the stable state substantially converges to the expectation state, and it is described
Expectation state provides the result substantially near the expected result.
74. method according to claim 55 measures wherein the quantum measurement is positive operator value.
75. method according to claim 55, further includes:Training quantum processor is provided, in machine learning task
Middle use.
76. method according to claim 55, wherein determining the measurement consequence whether in giving away from the known results
Further include in set a distance:Calculate the relative entropy measured between consequence and known results.
77. method according to claim 55, wherein determining the measurement consequence whether in giving away from the known results
Further include in set a distance:Execute chi square test.
Priority Applications (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
CN202210637239.4A CN115204401A (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Quantum processor and method for training quantum processor |
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201562273282P | 2015-12-30 | 2015-12-30 | |
US62/273,282 | 2015-12-30 | ||
PCT/US2016/068308 WO2017116986A1 (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Quantum statistic machine |
Related Child Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN202210637239.4A Division CN115204401A (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Quantum processor and method for training quantum processor |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN108701263A true CN108701263A (en) | 2018-10-23 |
CN108701263B CN108701263B (en) | 2022-06-24 |
Family
ID=57799855
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201680082538.9A Active CN108701263B (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Apparatus for coupling qubits and method for training quantum processors to solve machine learning inference problem |
CN202210637239.4A Pending CN115204401A (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Quantum processor and method for training quantum processor |
Family Applications After (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN202210637239.4A Pending CN115204401A (en) | 2015-12-30 | 2016-12-22 | Quantum processor and method for training quantum processor |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US11288585B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP3398121A1 (en) |
CN (2) | CN108701263B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2017116986A1 (en) |
Cited By (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN109886412A (en) * | 2019-01-11 | 2019-06-14 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | A kind of the persistent storage method, apparatus and storage medium of quantum program |
WO2021138857A1 (en) * | 2020-01-08 | 2021-07-15 | 华为技术有限公司 | Method, device, and system for data label tagging |
CN113570452A (en) * | 2021-08-20 | 2021-10-29 | 四川元匠科技有限公司 | Method, system, storage medium and terminal for solving fraud detection by quantum hidden Markov model |
CN114219076A (en) * | 2021-12-15 | 2022-03-22 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Quantum neural network training method and device, electronic device and medium |
CN114492811A (en) * | 2020-10-23 | 2022-05-13 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | Quantum communication map optimization method and device, terminal and storage medium |
WO2022247710A1 (en) * | 2021-05-28 | 2022-12-01 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | Quantum computer architecture system |
Families Citing this family (18)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN108256651B (en) | 2013-06-28 | 2022-09-06 | D-波系统公司 | Method for quantum processing of data |
WO2017031357A1 (en) | 2015-08-19 | 2017-02-23 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for machine learning using adiabatic quantum computers |
WO2018058061A1 (en) | 2016-09-26 | 2018-03-29 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems, methods and apparatus for sampling from a sampling server |
US11531852B2 (en) * | 2016-11-28 | 2022-12-20 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Machine learning systems and methods for training with noisy labels |
WO2019118644A1 (en) | 2017-12-14 | 2019-06-20 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for collaborative filtering with variational autoencoders |
US11386346B2 (en) | 2018-07-10 | 2022-07-12 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for quantum bayesian networks |
CN109409534A (en) * | 2018-10-25 | 2019-03-01 | 浙江工商大学 | A method of the detection complete separability of the diagonal state of four quantum bit clusters |
US11604992B2 (en) * | 2018-11-02 | 2023-03-14 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Probabilistic neural network architecture generation |
US11461644B2 (en) | 2018-11-15 | 2022-10-04 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for semantic segmentation |
US11468293B2 (en) | 2018-12-14 | 2022-10-11 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Simulating and post-processing using a generative adversarial network |
US11900264B2 (en) | 2019-02-08 | 2024-02-13 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for hybrid quantum-classical computing |
US11625612B2 (en) | 2019-02-12 | 2023-04-11 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for domain adaptation |
JP7302852B2 (en) * | 2019-06-06 | 2023-07-04 | 株式会社QunaSys | Quantum information processing method, classical computer, quantum computer, quantum information processing program, and data structure for open quantum systems |
US20210049504A1 (en) * | 2019-08-14 | 2021-02-18 | Rain Neuromorphics Inc. | Analog system using equilibrium propagation for learning |
KR102406312B1 (en) * | 2019-12-30 | 2022-06-10 | 한국과학기술원 | Method for mitigating an error of quantum circuit and apparatus thereof |
CN111814362B (en) * | 2020-08-28 | 2020-12-15 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Quantum noise process analysis method and system, storage medium and terminal equipment |
US11922296B2 (en) * | 2021-07-28 | 2024-03-05 | Rain Neuromorphics Inc. | Electrical networks using analytic loss gradients for design, analysis and machine learning |
CN116502726B (en) * | 2023-06-28 | 2023-09-19 | 深圳市爱云信息科技有限公司 | Quantum chip-based data storage system and method |
Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN102883548A (en) * | 2012-10-16 | 2013-01-16 | 南京航空航天大学 | Component mounting and dispatching optimization method for chip mounter on basis of quantum neural network |
CN104392143A (en) * | 2014-12-09 | 2015-03-04 | 北京四方继保自动化股份有限公司 | Method for predicting fault trends of steam turbines by aid of adaptive quantum neural networks |
US20150317558A1 (en) * | 2014-05-01 | 2015-11-05 | Lockheed Martin Corporation | Quantum-assisted training of neural networks |
CN105960650A (en) * | 2014-01-06 | 2016-09-21 | 谷歌公司 | Constructing and programming quantum hardware for robust quantum annealing processes |
Family Cites Families (10)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US7533068B2 (en) * | 2004-12-23 | 2009-05-12 | D-Wave Systems, Inc. | Analog processor comprising quantum devices |
WO2010148120A2 (en) * | 2009-06-17 | 2010-12-23 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for solving computational problems |
US8195596B2 (en) * | 2007-01-12 | 2012-06-05 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems, devices, and methods for interconnected processor topology |
WO2013006836A1 (en) * | 2011-07-06 | 2013-01-10 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Quantum processor based systems and methods that minimize an objective function |
US10318881B2 (en) * | 2013-06-28 | 2019-06-11 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for quantum processing of data |
US10496934B2 (en) * | 2014-02-28 | 2019-12-03 | Rigetti & Co, Inc. | Housing qubit devices in an electromagnetic waveguide system |
US9710758B2 (en) * | 2014-04-23 | 2017-07-18 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Quantum processor with instance programmable qubit connectivity |
WO2016029172A1 (en) * | 2014-08-22 | 2016-02-25 | D-Wave Systems Inc. | Systems and methods for problem solving, useful for example in quantum computing |
WO2016089711A1 (en) * | 2014-12-05 | 2016-06-09 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Quantum deep learning |
US10056908B2 (en) * | 2015-12-22 | 2018-08-21 | Rigetti & Co, Inc. | Operating a coupler device to perform quantum logic gates |
-
2016
- 2016-12-22 EP EP16826577.5A patent/EP3398121A1/en active Pending
- 2016-12-22 WO PCT/US2016/068308 patent/WO2017116986A1/en active Application Filing
- 2016-12-22 CN CN201680082538.9A patent/CN108701263B/en active Active
- 2016-12-22 US US16/067,560 patent/US11288585B2/en active Active
- 2016-12-22 CN CN202210637239.4A patent/CN115204401A/en active Pending
-
2022
- 2022-02-23 US US17/678,897 patent/US11900215B2/en active Active
Patent Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN102883548A (en) * | 2012-10-16 | 2013-01-16 | 南京航空航天大学 | Component mounting and dispatching optimization method for chip mounter on basis of quantum neural network |
CN105960650A (en) * | 2014-01-06 | 2016-09-21 | 谷歌公司 | Constructing and programming quantum hardware for robust quantum annealing processes |
US20150317558A1 (en) * | 2014-05-01 | 2015-11-05 | Lockheed Martin Corporation | Quantum-assisted training of neural networks |
CN104392143A (en) * | 2014-12-09 | 2015-03-04 | 北京四方继保自动化股份有限公司 | Method for predicting fault trends of steam turbines by aid of adaptive quantum neural networks |
Cited By (8)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN109886412A (en) * | 2019-01-11 | 2019-06-14 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | A kind of the persistent storage method, apparatus and storage medium of quantum program |
WO2021138857A1 (en) * | 2020-01-08 | 2021-07-15 | 华为技术有限公司 | Method, device, and system for data label tagging |
CN114492811A (en) * | 2020-10-23 | 2022-05-13 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | Quantum communication map optimization method and device, terminal and storage medium |
CN114492811B (en) * | 2020-10-23 | 2024-05-07 | 本源量子计算科技（合肥）股份有限公司 | Quantum connectivity map optimization method, device, terminal and storage medium |
WO2022247710A1 (en) * | 2021-05-28 | 2022-12-01 | 合肥本源量子计算科技有限责任公司 | Quantum computer architecture system |
CN113570452A (en) * | 2021-08-20 | 2021-10-29 | 四川元匠科技有限公司 | Method, system, storage medium and terminal for solving fraud detection by quantum hidden Markov model |
CN114219076A (en) * | 2021-12-15 | 2022-03-22 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Quantum neural network training method and device, electronic device and medium |
CN114219076B (en) * | 2021-12-15 | 2023-06-20 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Quantum neural network training method and device, electronic equipment and medium |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US11288585B2 (en) | 2022-03-29 |
CN115204401A (en) | 2022-10-18 |
US11900215B2 (en) | 2024-02-13 |
US20220180238A1 (en) | 2022-06-09 |
WO2017116986A1 (en) | 2017-07-06 |
EP3398121A1 (en) | 2018-11-07 |
US20190005402A1 (en) | 2019-01-03 |
CN108701263B (en) | 2022-06-24 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN108701263A (en) | Quantum statistics machine | |
JP7263502B2 (en) | Building and programming quantum hardware for quantum annealing process | |
JP7362692B2 (en) | quantum neural network | |
Cai et al. | Approximating quantum many-body wave functions using artificial neural networks | |
Ross | A review of quantum-inspired metaheuristics: Going from classical computers to real quantum computers | |
CN108369668B (en) | System and method for creating and using quantum boltzmann machine | |
CN111373420A (en) | Cost function deformation in quantum approximation optimization | |
Muñoz-Ordóñez et al. | Framework for the training of deep neural networks in TensorFlow using metaheuristics | |
Whigham et al. | An inductive approach to ecological time series modelling by evolutionary computation | |
Chen et al. | A deep-reinforcement-learning-based scheduler for fpga hls | |
Preti et al. | Hybrid discrete-continuous compilation of trapped-ion quantum circuits with deep reinforcement learning | |
Gao | Canonical duality theory and algorithm for solving bilevel knapsack problems with applications | |
Kearney | Using genetic algorithms to evolve artificial neural networks | |
AlKindy et al. | Hybrid genetic algorithm and lasso test approach for inferring well supported phylogenetic trees based on subsets of chloroplastic core genes | |
Dale et al. | The role of structure and complexity on reservoir computing quality | |
Van Kien et al. | Cascade training multilayer fuzzy model for nonlinear uncertain system identification optimized by differential evolution algorithm | |
Vidnerová et al. | Multi-objective evolution for deep neural network architecture search | |
Arunachalam | Quantum speed-ups for boolean satisfiability and derivative-free optimization | |
Wu et al. | Finding quantum many-body ground states with artificial neural network | |
Vidnerová et al. | Multiobjective evolution for convolutional neural network architecture search | |
Jiang et al. | Parameter optimization strategy of fuzzy petri net utilizing hybrid GA-SFLA algorithm | |
Becker | NSGA-ViT: an Evolutionary Approach to Vision Transformer Architecture Design | |
Jhaveri | Quantum Computing for Software Engineering: Code Clone Detection and Beyond | |
Zhang et al. | Index t-SNE Based on Sobol Sequence Initialized Harris Hawk Optimization Algorithm | |
Piastka | Deep Semantic Learning Machine Initial Design and Experiments |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |