Embodiment
Exemplary method and system are described herein. It will be clear that word " exemplary " is used to herein mean " as example, example or legend ". Be described to any enforcement mode of " exemplary " or " explanation property " herein or feature must not to be interpreted as relative to other enforcement mode or feature be more preferably or superior. More generally, enforcement mode described herein does not mean that it is restriction. Will readily appreciate, some aspect of disclosed system and method can be arranged with different configuration of all kinds and combine, and all being configured in is conceived herein.
I. summarize
Example embodiment can relate to a kind of system and/or realize with this system, and within the system, unmanned launch vehicle, especially " unmanned flight's device " (UAV), be configured to provide medical treatment support. Especially, the network of UAV can be distributed between many firing sites, and UAV can be allocated to deliver from described firing site medical treatment and support that article are to remote place. In some cases, UAV is dropped to ground needs medical treatment support place can be difficulty or because other reason be undesirable. Thus, for UAV, flying to the position above the people needing medical treatment to support and support article from aerial delivery medical treatment, this can be desired.
Therefore, example embodiment can be provided for supporting that the carrier agent of article drops to capstan system or other mechanism of required position, ground from the UAV of hovering by having medical treatment in a controlled manner. More specifically, the UAV of explanation property or can determine releasing variable deployment speed plan (VDRP) of the rope of the carrier agent with suspension for the telechirics of UAV. VDRP can regulation rope should by two or more speed (thus two or more lowering speeds of carrier agent) that it is released and for the timing information of the speed that performs defined. Noting, in some embodiments, the speed that rope released by capstan winch can be changed by means of the stopper (such as magneticbrake) that can control, and the stopper that can control is configured to apply the frictional force of variable number to rope. But, also it is possible for controlling other configuration of the speed that carrier agent is dropped to ground by rope.
II. for carrier agent to be dropped to the system on ground from the UAV of hovering
Figure 1A and 1B illustrates the UAV100 according to an example embodiment, and it comprises carrier agent delivery system. As shown, carrier agent delivery system for UAV100 comprises rope 102, rope deployment mechanism 104, carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 and carrier agent 108. Carrier agent 108 can itself be the medical treatment support article of such as defibrillator or medical container, or can be hold the container that article are supported in medical treatment, and such as medical treatment supports that article can be placed into general hanging basket type container wherein. No matter which kind of situation, the carrier agent delivery system of UAV100 can operate, thus carrier agent 108 is dropped to ground in a controlled manner independently.
More specifically, as shown in Figure 1A, during the flight from firing site to delivery position, UAV can be can operate rest on the bottom of UAV so that carrier agent 108 is remained or close on the bottom of UAV, or words likely are even inner at UAV100. So, when UAV100 arrives delivery position, the Controlling System of UAV operation rope deployment mechanism 104 can make carrier agent 108 be lowered by ground, as shown in Figure 1B.
Therefore, carrier agent can be remained on when UAV can be included in flight suitable position and/or the parts making carrier agent stable. Such parts can be movable so that when reaching delivery position, rope deployment mechanism 108 can put down carrier agent. Such as, in the configuration illustrated in figure ia, UAV100 comprises movable bracket 114. Carrier agent 108 can be remained on suitable position when flying by bracket 114, as shown in Figure 1A. When UAV100 arrives delivery position, support 114 can be removed from carrier agent 108 so that carrier agent can be put down towards ground. Noting, the mechanism of other type can also be used for carrier agent remaining on when flying suitable position and/or carrier agent being stablized. Or, when flying, carrier agent simply can be remained on suitable position by rope, and does not use any extra parts.
An example embodiment further in, when Controlling System detects that carrier agent has dropped to it and has been positioned at ground or during close to the point on ground, in response to this, Controlling System can operate carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 so that carrier agent is separated with rope. According to like this, the Controlling System of UAV can use various types of data and various method to determine carrier agent and be in ground or close to ground time. Further, it is used for determining that carrier agent is in ground or can provide by the sensor on the sensor on UAV100, rope 102, the sensor on carrier agent 108 and/or other data source close to data when ground.
A. rope deployment mechanism
In an example embodiment, rope deployment mechanism can comprise capstan winch or take the form of capstan winch, this capstan winch to be configured to dispose on it is the rope having carrier agent. Capstan winch can comprise electric motor (such as direct-current motor), and it can be controlled and microcontroller on one's own initiative by servo control mechanism (also referred to as " servo "). Microcontroller can export the required running speed for capstan winch (such as required rotations per minute (RPM)), speed that this running speed should can decline towards ground with it corresponding to rope and carrier agent. It is made to maintain required running speed so servo can control capstan winch.
In further, rope deployment mechanism 104 can change rope and carrier agent drops to the speed on ground. Such as, microcontroller can change required running speed according to variable deployment speed configuration file and/or in response to other factors, to change the speed that carrier agent declines towards ground. For this reason, rope deployment mechanism 104 can adjust the amount of the braking being applied to rope or the amount of frictional force. Such as, disposing speed to change rope, rope deployment mechanism 104 can comprise the pressure that can the apply variable quantity friction pad to rope. As another example, rope deployment mechanism 104 can comprise the electric motor hydraulic driving system changing wheel and releasing the speed of rope. Such breaking system can take the form of Mechatronic Systems, and in this Mechatronic Systems, motor operation is to slow down the speed that bobbin releases rope. Further, electric motor can change the amount of the speed (such as rotations per minute) of its adjustment bobbin, thus can change the deployment speed of rope. Other example is also possible.
In some embodiments, rope deployment mechanism can be attached on carrier agent, instead of is attached on UAV shell. Such as, capstan winch can be attached to the top of carrier agent. In such enforcement mode, capstan winch can be can operate with keep during the flight to delivery position carrier agent the bottom place of UAV shell or near. Further, arrive delivery position time, capstan winch can be can operate with by release rope and/or use stopper according to VDRP adjust rope release speed carrier agent is declined. Furthermore it is contemplated that the rope deployment mechanism of other type can also be attached to carrier agent.
B. carrier agent releasing mechanism
In some embodiments, carrier agent 108 and/or carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 can be designed as the structure having and helping prevent carrier agent 108 and/or carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 to block or stumble (such as preventing from stumbling and/or being entangled in tree or on transmission line) during declining. Such as, carrier agent 108 and/or carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 can take teardrop shape component or other can more easily be moved up and down and the form of the component of non-sticking shape, or can be placed in the component of such shape.
Depending on concrete enforcement, the carrier agent releasing mechanism of other type various is possible. Such as, UAV can comprise and is placed on rope or the carrier agent releasing mechanism at top of rope, this carrier agent releasing mechanism be can operate with carrier agent ground place or near time cut off rope or rope disengaged from UAV. Other example is also possible.
Further, in some embodiments, it is possible to there is no carrier agent releasing mechanism. Such as, carrier agent can be attached to winding mechanism, once be released, this winding mechanism simply winds the tail end of rope, as shown in Fig. 2 A to 2C.
More specifically, Fig. 2 A illustrates the UAV200 with carrier agent 208, and carrier agent 208 comprises wheel mechanism 210. During the flight to delivery position, carrier agent 208 can be maintained at suitable position by rope deployment mechanism, and rope deployment mechanism can be retractable member 214 in this case. When UAV arrives delivery position, rope 202 can be deployed, so and retractable member 214 can be retracted carrier agent is declined along rope 102. (noting, it is possible to have unshowned mechanism in Fig. 2 A to 2C, it, for being retracted by rope itself when flying or otherwise remain near UAV, then discharges when arriving delivery position and/or puts down rope. ) wheel of wheel mechanism 210 can be configured to clamp rope, thus limits the lowering speed of carrier agent. The pressure that wheel is applied on rope can be variable and can control, thus changes lowering speed according to VDRP.
C. Controlling System
In an example embodiment, UAV100 can comprise Controlling System to provide various function described herein. This Controlling System can comprise the programmed instruction being stored in non-transitory computer readable medium, or takes the form of this programmed instruction.
This Controlling System can be configured to determine variable deployment speed configuration file, this variable deployment speed configuration file indicate when carrier agent declines to ground in order to increase and/or to reduce the timing of the deployment speed of rope 102 and the lowering speed of thus carrier agent 108. Such as, in some cases, variable deployment speed configuration file so that carrier agent starts decline with higher speed, and little by little can reduce in speed close to ground along with carrier agent. In other cases, variable deployment speed configuration file can be indicated to frictional force (such as stopper adjustment) and thus to the more discontinuous adjustment of lowering speed. Such as, variable deployment speed configuration file can cause carrier agent to decline until carrier agent is within overhead a certain distance (such as 5 or 10 feet) scope with constant higher speed, at this point, frictional force can increase to reduce lowering speed significantly. Other example is also possible.
Further, the Controlling System of UAV100 can control intelligently carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 with ground place or near release carrier agent 108. Such as, rope in a certain length is released so that estimate carrier agent 108 on ground or overhead enough near thus after it can drop to the ground safely, Controlling System can trigger carrier agent releasing mechanism 106. Other example is also possible.
Noting, Controlling System utilizes its moment determining VDRP to change. In some embodiments, VDRP for concrete deployment can take off at UAV and be determined before advancing to delivery position. In other enforcement mode, the VDRP for concrete deployment can be determined while UAV advances from firing site to delivery position or be upgraded.
In other enforcement mode in addition, the VDRP for concrete deployment can arrive at UAV or be about to determined or upgrade when arriving delivery position. Such as, when UAV determines the top, geographical position (i.e. " delivery position ") that it is positioned at its carrier agent and should be deployed, in response to this, UAV can determine being dropped to by carrier agent the VDRP on ground at this concrete delivery position. Therefore, VDRP can examine filter to the feature of the environment at this concrete delivery position place and/or at this concrete delivery position, at the specified time that carrier agent is being delivered, it is possible to the other factors exclusive for the delivery of current carrier agent.
In order to promote the execution of VDRP, UAV100 can comprise the system of the amount (such as length) released by rope deployment mechanism 104 for determining rope. Such as, rope lengths can be determined according to counter, and this counter is to the rotation counting of the electric motor of the capstan winch in ROTATION CABLES deployment mechanism 104. Because the amount released of rope can be proportional to the revolution of capstan winch, so the length released by capstan winch of rope can calculate according to the revolution of the electric motor driving capstan winch.
So the length released of rope 102 can be used for the distance determined between carrier agent 108 and ground. More specifically, the height of given carrier agent itself, the height (if any) of carrier agent releasing mechanism, the length of rope 102, and the difference of altitude (if any) between the top of rope 102 and the point of UAV100 measured altitude, UAV100 can determine the distance between the bottom of carrier agent 108 and ground. Thus, along with rope 102 is deployed, the distance between carrier agent 108 and ground can be updated, such as to determine when to change the deployment speed of rope 102 according to given VDRP.
D. emergent release system
Again one further in, UAV100 can comprise emergency system (not shown), and it is configured to cut off or release rope. Especially, UAV100 can be configured to detect some emergency situation, and such as rope 102 and/or carrier agent block (such as in tree), and automatically cut off rope when such emergency situation is detected.
The emergency trip mechanism of various pattern is possible, and it can be configured to cut off the rope keeping carrier agent or otherwise discharged from UAV by rope. Or, carrier agent can be scaled off by emergency trip mechanism from rope, or is mechanically discharged from rope by carrier agent.
Further, the data of various pattern can be analyzed to determine whether and when emergency trip mechanism should be used to discharge carrier agent. Such as, UAV Controlling System can analyze the view data from Kamera, data from the data of rope pulling force sensor and/or other type, with determine carrier agent be stuck or carrier agent deployment to otherwise failure, and in response to this, it may also be useful to emergency trip mechanism discharges carrier agent.
E. the carrier agent of explanation property
In some embodiments, carrier agent can take the form of container, and this container comprises medical treatment holding equipment and/or other is intended at the helpful article of medical treatment situation. In other enforcement mode, carrier agent can itself be medical treatment support article (such as medicine bag or medicine) of medical treatment holding equipment (such as defibrillator) or other type. Illustrated embodiment can also comprise medical treatment and/or the non-medical carrier agent of other type, or can be implemented together with the medical treatment of other type and/or non-medical carrier agent.
When carrier agent 108 comprises energising component (such as sensor, communication system and/or medical treatment holding equipment), carrier agent can comprise power supply. In some embodiments, carrier agent 108 can comprise the condenser type power supply from the power source charges the shell of UAV100. Condenser type power supply on carrier agent can be configured to make when being maintained at maintenance position as in Figure 1A, and the contact on condenser type power supply touching UAV shell, thus by the power source charges in the shell of UAV100. Condenser type power supply can store enough energy, after being separated with this shell at it and to start the decline towards ground, drives carrier agent 108 to continue such as two to three minutes.
F. communication system between carrier agent and UAV
In some embodiments, UAV100 can be configured to and carrier agent 108 communication, with the sensor that sends data on carrier agent 108 and/or system and/or from the sensor carrier agent 108 and/or system receives data. Especially, the Controlling System in the main shell of UAV100 or systems can be mounted to carrier agent 108 or the sensor being integrated in carrier agent 108 and/or system communication (or only may receive data from it). Such as, the data from the sensor on carrier agent can provide the feedback of the state about carrier agent while carrier agent is deployed, and/or is used for determining that carrier agent has arrived ground and/or close to ground or another object time. Other example is also possible.
In such enforcement mode, the shell of carrier agent 108 and UAV100 both can all have the wireless communication interface for the radio communication between carrier agent and UAV shell. Or, electric wire can be included in the example system for the wire communication between UAV shell and carrier agent. Further, in some embodiments, electric wire for the communication between carrier agent and UAV can be enclosed in the rope 102 for carrier agent 108 drops to ground.
G. other side
In some embodiments, UAV can additionally or alternatively be configured to use and picked up from ground by article with the system of the system similarity shown in Figure 1A and 1B or dissimilar system. In such enforcement mode, variable withdrawal speed configuration file (profile) can be changed, and while changing UAV hovering, rope is retracted the speed that the shell so that carrier agent to face UAV from ground promotes.
III. for determining the method for variable deployment speed configuration file
As mentioned above, it is necessary, UAV100 can comprise the Controlling System to determine variable deployment speed configuration file that can operate, this variable deployment speed configuration file can be used for disposing the rope with the carrier agent being from the UAV hovered. Fig. 3 is schema, and it illustrates the method 300 according to an example embodiment. Especially, method 300 can be implemented by the computing system of UAV, to determine variable deployment speed configuration file and to use this variable deployment speed configuration file to deliver carrier agent while hovering over above delivery position.
More specifically, as shown by block 302, method 300 relates to the computing system of the variable deployment speed configuration file of the deployment from UAV determining carrier agent, wherein rope carrier agent is attached to UAV and be can dispose so that carrier agent is put down towards ground. At square frame 304, computing system makes rope deployment mechanism operate so that carrier agent declines towards ground according to determined variable deployment speed configuration file. Then, at square frame 306, computing system detects at least one predetermined release instruction, and this release instruction shows that carrier agent is positioned at ground or close ground. In response at least one release instruction described being detected, computing system makes carrier agent discharge (such as by making the carrier agent releasing mechanism of such as carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 operate) from rope, as depicted by a block 308.
Noting, the described function of method 300 and other function can be described to herein perform so that disclosing understandable by UAV. It will be clear that such function by the computing system of such as UAV or systems, such as can be performed by the UAV Controlling System described with reference to UAV100. In an exemplary method, it is possible to use other UAV system and/or sensor.
Further, although method 300 is described to perform by UAV by example, but in fact method 300 or its part can be performed in the system place being separated with UAV and communicate with UAV, and do not depart from the scope of the present invention. Such as, the UAV control center in remote location can determine the VDRP of UAV, and sends determined VDRP to UAV by means of wireless communication link. Other example is also possible.
A. variable deployment speed configuration file is determined
In an example embodiment, UAV100 dynamically it is determined that be used to the variable deployment speed configuration file of concrete position, can make its carrier agent decline towards ground at this concrete position UAV. Such as, UAV can according to the factor of the height of such as (a) UAV, (b) wind condition, (c) environmental factors (such as tree, transmission line etc.) and/or (d) carrier agent feature (friability of size, shape, weight, goods etc.) together with other possible factor, it is determined that variable deployment speed configuration file.
Such as, UAV100 can determine that it hovers over height above the ground, and correspondingly adjusts variable deployment speed configuration file. Such as, UAV can be configured to the first speed landing carrier agent until carrier agent is in above the ground 10 feet, and the decrease in velocity landed by carrier agent at 10 feet of places is to the 2nd speed. As a concrete example, the first speed can be 5.0 feet/second (ft/sec), and the 2nd speed can be 1.0ft/sec. Therefore, if balloon (balloon) hovers over 34 feet, then UAV can create variable deployment speed configuration file, this variable deployment speed configuration file specifies that rope deployment mechanism 104 should release rope 102 with the speed of 5.0ft/sec at first, and when the rope of 24 feet is released by the deployment decrease in velocity of rope to 1.0ft/sec.
Note, in order to implement above-mentioned variable deployment speed configuration file, wherein dispose speed-shifting at above the ground 10 feet of places and become 1.0ft/sec, rope deployment mechanism 104 can start to reduce deployment speed (such as by braking) at carrier agent before above the ground 10 feet so that the deployment speed of rope carrier agent at above the ground 10 feet time (such as when UAV hovers over 34 feet and the rope of 24 feet is released) be 1.0ft/sec. Or, rope deployment mechanism 104 can carrier agent at above the ground 10 feet time start to reduce deployment speed. In such enforcement mode, the deployment speed of carrier agent rope when above the ground 10 feet can be greater than 1.0ft/sec, but shortly after that will be lowered so far speed.
In the above examples, variable deployment speed configuration file is that the lowering speed at length-specific (length corresponding to specific range between carrier agent and ground of such as rope) place specifies discontinuous adjustment. Note, although above example comprises only two deployment speed (such as original speed and carrier agent the 2nd lower speed when ground), but the finer and closely woven variable deployment speed configuration file specifying the deployment speed more than two is also possible.
Further, UAV can also be generated as the variable deployment speed configuration file being given for the function changing deployment speed continuously at least partially of carrier agent delivery process. Such as, UAV can determine that, from the first deployment speed to the linear reduction of the 2nd deployment speed, the 2nd deployment speed is usually little than the first deployment speed. Especially, UAV can determine it hovering height, it is then determined that from the first deployment speed by its reduce deployment speed linear speed so that the 2nd deployment speed carrier agent be in overhead target distance time be implemented. Other example is also possible.
As mentioned above, it is necessary, in some embodiments, UAV can change VDRP according to the weather condition of delivery position. Such as, UAV can according to the wind adjustment VDRP of delivery position. As an example, if wind is relatively strong, then in order to reduce when carrier agent declines, wind is on the impact of carrier agent, and UAV can increase some of deployment or the deployment speed in all stages.
Further, the weather condition of such as wind can be considered together with other factors. Such as, UAV can consider the weight of carrier agent and/or structure and wind and/or other factors. Citing, if UAV is falling heavier and/or is having the carrier agent being moved more insensitive structure by wind, then balloon compared to it for lighter and/or there is the carrier agent to being moved more responsive structure by wind do, it is possible under given wind speed, produce the increase of less deployment speed. Other example is also possible.
In another further aspect, UAV100 can be configured to vertically mobile (namely changing height) to control the decline of carrier agent. Like this, the VDRP determined at square frame 302 can comprise timing information, time the deployment period UAV that this timing information indicates carrier agent should change highly. Such as, VDRP can indicate the concrete moment that UAV should change height, or rope lengths when UAV should change height or height overhead. Further, VDRP can indicate in order to realize the speed changing height, it is possible to also has acceleration.
As a concrete example, when carrier agent 108 is near ground, UAV100 can move up with what constant speed was released at rope 102 simultaneously, to cushion the landing of carrier agent 108. Deliver the such vertical movement of period UAV for the ease of carrier agent, VDRP can indicate the rope lengths (or from carrier agent to the distance on ground) when UAV100 should start vertically to move to new height. Such as, in order to make the landing of carrier agent on ground soft, VDRP can indicate the UAV when carrier agent is at overhead 1.0 feet should increase its height with the speed of 0.5ft/sec, until its height increases 0.75 foot. Other example is also possible.
In another further aspect, given variable deployment speed configuration file can have association height, UAV should hover over this association height (or can have association height scope, UAV should remain in this association height scope while falling carrier agent) while falling carrier agent. Required hovering height or height scope can pre-determine, or dynamically can determine (such as the part performing square frame 302) by UAV when UAV arrives delivery position. Required hovering highly can be determined according to various factors.
Such as, arrange according to given variable deployment speed configuration file needed for the delivery being used for carrier agent and hover and highly rope lengths factor can be included (such as UAV should not hover over rope carrier agent can not be down to ground or at least fall the safety on distance ground fall on the height in distance). UAV or other entity are when determining hovering needed for variable deployment speed configuration file highly, it is contemplated that the weather condition of delivery position. Such as, when there being stronger wind, UAV can attempt hovering over lower height, and when reducing carrier agent decline to obtain, wind is on the effect of rope and the impact of carrier agent. Such as, UAV can also consider its surrounding environment, and the hovering height adjusting it prevents the same object of carrier agent (such as tree, people, automobile, buildings, transmission line etc.) from bumping against to attempt when carrier agent declines from UAV.
In another further aspect, UAV100 can determine mobile on one's own initiative, and the pendulum shape motion of carrier agent is offset, prevents or reduced in another manner in described movement when carrier agent declines to ground. Such as, when carrier agent 108 declines by means of rope 102, carrier agent can serve as the pendulum hanging on UAV, thus owing to the transverse direction of such as wind and/or UAV moves, it is possible to have the tendency swung back and forth through camber line. Therefore, when determining VDRP, UAV100 can consider the data of the weight distribution of the inclusion of such as current wind condition and/or carrier agent 108, to determine that the transverse direction offsetting the transverse force acting on carrier agent of expection moves on one's own initiative. Like this, determined VDRP can indicate laterally mobile and for moment of such movement, it is contemplated that this offsets the transverse force acted on carrier agent of expection and prevents or the swing of carrier agent 108 on damping rope 102. Additionally or alternatively, UAV100 can monitor the swing when it declines of carrier agent 108, and moves, by level, this swing that dynamically responds to decay.
C. adjust or depart from variable deployment speed configuration file
In some embodiments, in the midway landed towards ground by carrier agent, UAV100 can dynamically adjust or depart from variable deployment speed configuration file. Specifically, UAV100 can assess the fresh information that carrier agent lands obtain towards ground simultaneously, to determine whether adjustment or to depart from VDRP.
Such as, when determining variable deployment speed configuration file, UAV can determine to apply a certain amount of braking in rope, specifically highly to obtain specific lowering speed. When this determines to generate based on VDRP, relevant environment some is assumed or observation. But, landing carrier agent simultaneously according to this VDRP, UAV can change (people such as coming into area of landing) by testing environment, and described environmental change makes the lower or higher lowering speed at certain height place cater to the need. Additionally or alternatively, UAV can change by testing environment so that the amount of determined braking no longer realizes the lowering speed that certain height place needs. When such change is detected in the midway that declines, in response to this, UAV can adjust VDRP, or departs from predetermined variable deployment speed configuration file.
In another further aspect, UAV100 can by offset when carrier agent declines to ground, prevent or reduce the mode of the motion of carrier agent reactive mobile. Such as, as mentioned above, it is necessary, carrier agent can show as pendulum while UAV declines at it, thus can have the tendency swung back and forth through camber line. Like this, the data of the motion of UAV that UAV100 can consider such as carrier agent decline wind data simultaneously and/or detect, determine that the transverse direction of the transverse force acting on carrier agent offsetting expection moves with reactivity, and prevent or the swing of carrier agent 108 on damping rope 102.
D. at least one predetermined release instruction is detected
As mentioned above, it is necessary, the square frame 306 of method 300 relates to UAV detects at least one predetermined release instruction, described release instruction indicates carrier agent on ground or near ground. Noting, release instruction can be specified by concrete VDRP, or defines with can being independent of concrete VDRP.
In some embodiments, the work of detection at least one release instruction described can comprise judgement carrier agent touching ground. Such as, according to the pressure transmitter on the bottom from carrier agent 108 and/or close to the sensing data of sensor, UAV can judge carrier agent touching ground, and triggers carrier agent releasing mechanism 106 in response to this. Specifically, the data from pressure transmitter and/or close to sensor can represent that carrier agent 108 is just contacting certain thing, and certain thing described can be assumed to be ground.
In some embodiments, UAV100 can utilize from rope pulling force sensor data to judge carrier agent be considered as touching ground time. Especially, when UAV100 detects that the pulling force on rope has dropped to below certain critical amount of pulling force, UAV can think that this is the instruction that carrier agent has arrived ground, and in response to this release carrier agent 108. Specifically, the critical reduction of pulling force can be interpreted as meaning that the weight of carrier agent is no longer by cable support (result as carrier agent is put on ground).
Similarly, can be used for from the data close to sensor judging that carrier agent 108 has arrived ground. Such as, the summation that UAV can detect the height of carrier agent itself, the height (if any) of carrier agent releasing mechanism, the length of rope 102 released and the difference of altitude (if any) between the top of rope 102 and the point of UAV100 measured altitude is equal to, or greater than the height of UAV, thus in carrier agent is considered on ground.
In some embodiments, time UAV100 can utilize and represent the data that have been released of how many ropes to judge carrier agent touching ground. Further, in some embodiments, time UAV can additionally or alternatively use Kamera to judge that carrier agent has arrived ground. Such as, on UAV and/or carrier agent originally Kamera with it view data can analyzed to judge that carrier agent has arrived ground time.
In another further aspect, time UAV100 can use the combination of two or more release instructions to judge that carrier agent has arrived ground. Doing the positive reduction of the mistake that can help prevent or reduce rope pulling force and/or the probability of the positive triggering (may occur if such as such as carrier agent collides branch in decline way) of pressure or the mistake close to sensor, the positive reduction of the mistake of rope pulling force and/or pressure or the positive triggering close to the mistake of sensor like this can cause carrier agent to be discharged too early.
Such as, UAV can compare rope lengths and height, is possible to judge whether carrier agent has declined enough far away so that rest on the ground. More specifically, when release instruction being detected as UAV according to pressure transmitter on rope pulling force sensor or carrier agent, before release carrier agent, UAV can also require that the length of rope is equal to, or greater than the height of UAV. Other example is also possible.
In some embodiments, UAV can, before carrier agent arrives ground, such as drop to when carrier agent is dropped to the point that ground is considered as safe by this place at carrier agent, release carrier agent. In such enforcement mode, the work of detection at least one release instruction described can comprise judgement carrier agent within the critical range scope on distance ground. As mentioned above, it is necessary, distance between carrier agent and ground can according to from the data close to sensor, the height according to the length released and UAV compare and/or according to other data judging.
IV. the UAV of exemplary types
Exemplary method and system can be implemented in conjunction with various types of UAV, or can take the form of various types of UAV. Some examples will be described now; But, know that very much exemplary method and system are not limited at UAV described herein. The term " unmanned flight's device " used in the disclosure can refer to can when there is no to perform when the human pilot of physical presence some functions any independently or the aircraft of half autonomy. Inter alia, the example of flight correlation function can also comprise its environment of detection or aloft operate and do not need the input from operator, but is not limited to this.
As described, UAV can be autonomous or half autonomy. Such as, some functions can be controlled by remote control person, and other function is performed autonomously. Further, UAV can be configured to allow remote control person to take over the function that independently can control on the contrary by UAV. Further, the function of given type can be controlled at a distance on an abstract level, and is performed autonomously on another abstract level. Such as, remote control person can control the high-level sailing decision-making for UAV, such as by specifying UAV should proceed to another location (such as from the town hall in the town hall of Pa Luoaoduo to San Francisco) from a position row, and the navigation system of UAV independently controls trickleer sailing decision-making, the concrete route that such as adopts between the two positions, realize this route and hide concrete flight controlling of obstacle of navigating by water when this route etc. Other example is also possible.
UAV can be various form. Such as, except other possibility, UAV can also take the rotor aircraft of such as vertiplane or multi-rotor aerocraft, fixing wing aircraft, jet airplane, the airship of ducted fan formula flyer, the such as lighter than air of blimp or steerable balloon, tail to sit the form of formula omniplane, soarer and/or flapping-wing aircraft. Further, term " unmanned spacecraft ", " unmanned flight's device system " (" UAVS ") or " unmanned airline " (" UAS ") can also be used to refer to UAV.
Fig. 4 is the simplification figure of the UAV according to an example embodiment. Especially, Fig. 4 illustrates an example of the rotor aircraft 400 being commonly referred to multi-rotor aerocraft. Multi-rotor aerocraft 400 can also be called as four-axle aircraft, because it comprises four water screws 410. It will be clear that example embodiment can comprise the rotor aircraft with the water screw more more or less than multi-rotor aerocraft 400. Such as, vertiplane generally has two water screws. Other example with three or more water screw is also possible. Herein, term " multi-rotor aerocraft " refers to have any rotor aircraft more than the water screw of two, and term " vertiplane " refers to have the rotor aircraft of two water screws.
More in detail see multi-rotor aerocraft 400, four water screws 410 provide propulsive force and motor-driven ability for multi-rotor aerocraft 400. More specifically, each water screw 410 comprises the blade being connected to electric motor 420. So the water screw of structure can allow multi-rotor aerocraft 400 vertically take-off and landing, motor-driven in any direction and/or hovering. In addition, the oar of blade is apart from groups and/or distinguishing ground adjustment, and multi-rotor aerocraft 410 can be allowed to perform three-dimensional air maneuvers, inter alia, the hovering also such as put upside down, continuously tail " ticking " somersault, original place revolution somersault, original place revolution stall reversing down, side flies, half-loop overturn, pat and tumble in advancing. When the oar of all blades is apart from, when being adjusted to perform such air maneuvers, this can be called as " total distance " of adjustment multi-rotor aerocraft 400. Blade-oar can be particularly useful to the rotor aircraft with sizable water screw and/or driving mechanism inertia apart from adjustment, but is not limited to such rotor aircraft.
Additionally or alternatively, multi-rotor aerocraft 400 can by jointly or the rotating speed of difference ground adjustment electric motor, promote and motor-driven it oneself. This technology can be particularly useful to the small-sized electric rotor aircraft with little electric motor and/or propeller system inertia, but is not limited to such rotor aircraft.
Multi-rotor aerocraft 400 also comprises the center machine shell 430 with hinged lid 435. Together with other possibility together, center machine shell can comprise such as the control electronic circuit of such as Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) and/or electronic speed controller, battery, other sensor and/or carrier agent.
The multi-rotor aerocraft 400 of explanation property also comprises the controlled take-off and landing device 440 taking off and landing of help. In other enforcement mode, it does not have the multi-rotor aerocraft of take-off and landing device and the UAV of other type are also possible.
In another further aspect, multi-rotor aerocraft 400 comprises propeller protector 450. Such propeller protector 450 can serve multiple object, if such as multi-rotor aerocraft 400 deviates too near object, protect water screw 410 in order to avoid damage, the structure of protection multi-rotor aerocraft 400 in order to avoid damage and object near protection in order to avoid damaged by water screw 410. It will be clear that in other enforcement mode, it does not have the multi-rotor aerocraft of propeller protector and the UAV of other type are also possible. Further, the propeller protector of different shapes, size and function is possible, and does not depart from the scope of the present invention.
By control it oar distance, roll, driftage and/or height, multi-rotor aerocraft 400 can control direction and/or the speed of its motion. In order to do like this, multi-rotor aerocraft 400 can increase or reduce the speed that water screw 410 rotates. Such as, by maintaining the constant speed of three water screws 410 and reduce the speed of quadruple screw propeller, depend on which electric motor makes its speed reduce, multi-rotor aerocraft 400 can roll to the right, to the left roll, lean forward or hypsokinesis. Specifically, multi-rotor aerocraft can towards the motor direction roll of the speed with reduction. As another example, the speed increasing simultaneously or reducing all water screws 410 can cause multi-rotor aerocraft 400 to increase or reduce its height respectively. As another example, the speed increasing or reducing the water screw 410 rotated in the same direction can cause multi-rotor aerocraft 400 to carry out motion of turning left or turn right. These are only by independent ground or jointly adjust rotations per minute (RPM) that water screw 410 rotates and/or some examples of the dissimilar motion that direction can realize.
Fig. 5 is the simplification figure of the UAV according to an example embodiment. Especially, Fig. 5 illustrates that tail sits an example of formula vertol UAV500. In shown example, tail is sat formula vertol UAV500 and is had the fixing wing 502 providing lift and glide (such as along X-axis, be approximately perpendicular to the position of position shown in Fig. 5) with allowing UAV level. But, the fixing wing 502 oneself also allows tail to sit formula vertol UAV500 vertically take-off and landing by it.
Such as, at firing site, tail is sat formula vertol UAV500 and can uprightly be settled (as shown), and fixed fin 504 and/or the wing 502 are supported on ground and make UAV be stabilized in erect position. Tail sit formula vertol UAV500 then can by running water screw 506 to produce thrust upwards (such as probably along the thrust of Y-axis) take off. Once be in suitable height, tail is sat formula vertol UAV500 and its pleat wing 508 can be used with by its steering horizontal position so that fuselage 510 is closer to but not Y-axis consistent with X-axis. When level locate time, water screw 506 can provide the thrust of advance so that tail sit formula vertol UAV500 can fly in the way of similar to common aircraft.
The variation that shown tail is sat formula vertol UAV500 is possible. Such as, it is also possible for having more or less water screw or using the tail of ducted fan or multiple ducted fan to sit formula vertol UAV. Further, it is also possible for having the more wing (such as having " the x wing " structure of four wings), having less wing or even do not have the different wing of the wing to construct. More in general, the tail seat formula vertol UAV knowing very much other type and the variation that shown tail is sat formula vertol UAV500 are also possible.
As mentioned above, it is necessary, the UAV that some enforcement modes can comprise other type adds multi-rotor aerocraft again, or comprise the UAV of other type and substitute multi-rotor aerocraft. Such as, Fig. 6 and 7 is the simplicity of illustration of the UAV of other type according to example embodiment.
Especially, Fig. 6 illustrates an example of fixing wing aircraft 600, and it can also be called as aircraft (airplane), aircraft (aeroplane) or simple aircraft (plane). As its name suggests, fixing wing aircraft 600 has the fixing wing 602, and the fixing wing 602 produces lift according to the air speed of the wing advance with aircraft. This wing structure is different from the structure of the rotor aircraft by producing lift around fixed main shaft rotating screw and is produced the structure of the flapping-wing aircraft of lift by flapping wing.
Fig. 6 illustrates some the common structures for fixing wing aircraft 600. Especially, fixing wing aircraft 600 comprises: fuselage 604; Two horizontal tails 602, it has aerofoil profile shape cross section to produce aerodynamic force; Fixed fin 606 (or fin), the driftage (turn left or turn right) of its stable aircraft; Horizontal stabilizer 608 (also referred to as elevating rudder or empennage), its stable pitching (is inclined upwardly or tilts downwards); Take-off and landing device 610; And puopulsion unit 612, it can comprise engine, axle and water screw.
Fig. 7 illustrates an example of the aircraft 700 of the water screw with thruster structure. Term " thruster " refers to that puopulsion unit 708 is arranged on the rear portion of aircraft and " pushes away " forward the fact of aircraft, and this is arranged on before aircraft contrary with puopulsion unit. Similar to the description provided for Fig. 6, Fig. 7 illustrates the common structure for thruster aircraft: fuselage 702, two horizontal tails 704, fixed fin 706 and puopulsion unit 708, puopulsion unit 708 can comprise engine, axle and water screw.
UAV can utilize various types of launching system (it can also be called as deployment system) to take off in various mode. The very simple mode of a kind of UAV of transmitting is hand-held transmitting. In order to carry out hand-held transmitting, user holds a part for aircraft, it is preferable that away from the water screw rotated, is then thrown into by aircraft in the air, regulates the thrust of puopulsion unit to produce lift simultaneously.
Cell site that is fixing or movement can be used, and does not use hand-held transmitting process, and in hand-held transmitting process, the people of transmitting aircraft is exposed in the danger that the water screw of fast rotational brings. Such as, launching system can comprise support, angled and tilt track and backstop. Aircraft starts the launching system being still on track that is angled and that tilt, and launches to produce the air speed forward on the scarp along launching system by fully increasing the speed of water screw. In the end of track that is angled and that tilt, aircraft can have the air speed being enough to produce lift. As another example, a kind of launching system can comprise track rifle or big gun, both can launch by UAV is thrusted into flight. The launching system of this type can be launched rapidly UAV and/or can launch UAV towards the point of destination of UAV fartherly. The launching system of other type can also be used.
In some cases, when UAV can be configured to oneself launch, it is possible to not used for the independent launching system of UAV. Such as, " tail sit formula omniplane " UAV has the fixing wing providing lift and allow UAV to glide usually, and is configured to lean on it oneself vertical take-off and landing. Other example of self-emission UAV is also possible.
In another further aspect, the unmanned launch vehicle of other type various can be used to provide tele-medicine support. Such launch vehicle can comprise such as unmanned land vehicle (UGV), unmanned spacecraft (USV) and/or unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV). UGV can detect its environment and navigates by water in the landform based on earth's surface not from the launch vehicle of input of officer. Together with other, the empty police car that the example of UGV comprises boats and ships (watercraft), car, truck, buggy, motorcycle, scooter and can fetch. UUV be can detect it environment and by it oneself at the launch vehicle of underwater navigation, such as underwater vehicle. The unmanned launch vehicle of other type is also possible.
V. the exemplary medical support system with UAV
In some embodiments, exemplary method and system can be implemented with a kind of medical support system, and this medical support system comprises a UAV group of planes for the regional distribution throughout such as city. Described medical support system can configure for utilizing the communication of long-range equipment such as mobile telephone so that medical treatment supports to be required people's (or by representing other people of people having demand) request that such medical treatment is supported. Then, medical support system can send suitable UAV or UAV to medical conditions scene to provide medical treatment support. Fig. 8 is the simplified block diagram illustrating the medical support system 800 according to an example embodiment.
In an example embodiment, medical support system 800 can comprise a group of planes with many dissimilar UAV, and the medical conditions that described dissimilar UAV is different configures. Such as, some UAV can be configured with and expect to the useful article of asystolia situation and/or function, and some UAV can be configured to help and suffocate victim, and some UAV can be configured to help trauma victims etc. Like this, the medical support system 800 of explanation property can be configured to the particular type to the medical conditions occurred and identifies or classify, and selects suitable UAV from available UAV, and the UAV assigning selection is on-the-spot to medical conditions.
In another further aspect, medical support system can be configured to the position that location medical conditions is occurring or occurring so that one or more UAV selected can be dispatched to described position. Further, once the position of medical conditions is determined, medical support system can configure UAV or UAV that the select described position independently to navigate by water to (or at least close) medical conditions. In some embodiments, medical support system can configure UAV to march to the Position Approximate near medical conditions scene, can preparing for the remote control by means of operator of UAV at this position medical support system, UAV is driven the particular location to medical conditions (such as the people specified to crowded market) by such operator able person building site.
It is provided it will be clear that above enforcement mode and other enforcement mode described herein are the object illustrated, and does not intend to become restriction.
Further, term used herein " medical conditions " should be understood to include government or private entity's any situation that such as police unit, fire-fighting department and/or emergency medical services (EMS) entity may send its personnel to go. Therefore, in fact some medical conditions may be non-medical in essence. Such as, concerning the disclosure, the emergency situation that police car, fire-engine or ambulance may be sent thinks medical conditions. Medical treatment is supported in emergency circumstances to be required (when such as being sent nonviolent crime scene as police) such. Further, concerning the disclosure, some nonemergencies that police car, fire-engine, ambulance etc. may be sent can also be counted as medical conditions. Thus, illustrative embodiments helps to provide medical treatment to support at medical conditions scene although can be said to be to be implemented as, but it will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art that the other side of the function of the UAV described clearly, such UAV and/or the mode of enforcement can also be applicable to non-medical and/or non-emergent application herein.
In the medical support system 800 of explanation property, access system 802 can allow to support the interaction of the network of UAV804 with medical treatment, medical treatment is supported the network-based control of UAV804 and/or medical treatment is supported the utilization of the network of UAV804. In some embodiments, access system 802 can be the computing system allowing the Artificial Control of UAV804 to send. According to like this, Controlling System can comprise or provide user interface (UI) 803 to otherwise, user can access by means of user interface (UI) 803 and/or control UAV804.
As a concrete example, access system 802 can be the computing system being in police office or firehouse. Therefore, the human operator who at police office or firehouse place can receive the instruction (such as phone, short message etc.) that there is situation from long-range equipment 806. Then, it is suitable that this operator can judge that medical treatment is supported, and uses access system 802 to send one or more UAV of the medical treatment support providing suitable. Such as, this operator UI803 of access system 802 can be used to come position (or to another location that the user of long-range equipment 806 indicates) that requirement UAV is dispatched to long-range equipment 806.
Except allowing the sending of UAV804, the UI803 of access system 802 can also provide other function. Such as, UI803 can allow operator that some details relevant to the medical conditions that UAV is sent is described. The example of such details can include but not limited to: the general information that (a) is relevant to the people related in situation or people, such as age, height, body weight etc.; B medical information that () is relevant to the people related in situation or people, such as case history, known anaphylaxis etc.; C information that () is relevant to medical conditions itself, symptom that such as people shows, the details (such as traffic accident) of event etc. around this situation; And (d) is to the explanation needed for the UAV that will be sent, such as medical treatment holding capacity, wireless communication ability etc.
Further, access system 802 can be prepared for the remote control of UAV. Such as, access system 802 can allow operator to control the flight of UAV by means of UI803. As a concrete example, operator can use access system to send UAV804 on-the-spot to medical conditions. UAV804 then can independently navigate by water to medical conditions be considered to exist general region (such as stadium). Now, operator can use access system 802 to take over the control to UAV804, and drives UAV to the concrete people (such as to the seat of this people in stadium) needing medical treatment to support. Other example is also possible.
In the enforcement mode of an explanation property, UAV804 can adopt various form. Such as, each UAV804 can be such as those the UAV shown in Fig. 4 to 7. But, medical support system 800 can also use the UAV of other type, and does not depart from the scope of the present invention. In some implementations, all UAV804 can be identical or similar structure. But, in other enforcement, UAV804 can comprise many dissimilar UAV. Such as, UAV804 can comprise the UAV of many types, and the UAV of every type is configured in order to the medical treatment support of dissimilar or types.
Long-range equipment 806 can adopt various form. Usually, long-range equipment 806 can be can carry out the request that medical treatment is supported by means of it, and/or can require that any equipment that the situation that medical treatment is supported can be reported is supported or benefited from medical treatment by means of it. Such as, long-range equipment 806 can be mobile telephone, panel computer, laptop computer, Personal Computer or any even net calculating device. Further, in some situation, long-range equipment 806 can not be calculating device. As an example, allow the standard phone by means of the communication of common Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS) that long-range equipment 806 can be used as.
Further, long-range equipment 806 can be configured to communicate with access system 802 by means of one or more of network of communication () 814. Such as, long-range equipment 806 is by making a phone call to communicate with access system 802 (or the human operator who by means of access system) through the data network of POTS network, cellular mobile network and/or such as Internet. The network of other type can also be used.
As mentioned above, it is necessary, long-range equipment 806 can be configured to allow user to ask medical treatment support. Such as, people can use their mobile telephone, POTS phone or VoIP phone are to make a call emergency call (such as 9-1-1) and ask to provide medical treatment to support in the scene of the accident. Further, it is noted that the request of medical treatment support is needed not to be clear and definite. Such as, people can dial 9-1-1 phone to report emergency situation. When 9-1-1 operator receives such phone, operator can assess the information of offer and judge that medical treatment support is suitable. Correspondingly, operator can use access system 802 to assign UAV804.
In another further aspect, long-range equipment 806 can be configured to determine and/or provide the instruction of its self-position. Such as, long-range equipment 806 can comprise gps system and makes it can comprise GPS position information (such as gps coordinate) in the communication with access system 802 and/or with the such as dispatching system of central dispatching system 808. As another example, long-range equipment 806 can use the technology comprising triangulation (such as between the base station in cellular mobile network) to determine its position. Or, the other system of such as cellular mobile network can use the technology comprising triangulation to determine the position of long-range equipment 806, then sends location message to long-range equipment 806 to notify its position of long-range equipment. Other position determines that technology is also possible.
In the layout of an explanation property, central dispatching system 808 can be a server or one group of server, and it is configured to receive from access system 802 send message request and/or send instruction. Such send message can ask or Deictic Center dispatching system 808 is coordinated for the deployment of UAV that tele-medicine is supported. Central dispatching system 808 can be further configured to transmits such request or instruction to local dispatching system 810. For providing such function, central dispatching system 808 can communicate with access system 802 by the data network by means of such as Internet or for the private network of the communication foundation between access system and Automatic dispatching system.
In the structure illustrated, central dispatching system 808 can be configured to coordinate sending of the UAV804 from many different local dispatching systems 810. Like this, central dispatching system 808 can grasp each which UAV804 is arranged in which local dispatching system 810, which UAV804 is currently available for deployment and/or UAV804 for which kind of medical conditions or which medical conditions configures. Additionally or alternatively, each local dispatching system 810 can be configured to follow the trail of which in UAV804 of its association be currently available in the UAV of deployment and/or its association each be which kind of medical conditions or the configuration of which medical conditions.
In some embodiments, when center dispatching system 808 receives the request that medical treatment is supported from access system 802, central dispatching system 808 can select specific UAV804 to send. Central dispatching system 808 can correspondingly indicate the local dispatching system 810 associated with the UAV selected to send the UAV of selection. Then local dispatching system 810 can run the UAV of deployment system 812 with selection of taking off of its association.
As a concrete example, central dispatching system 808 can receive the medical conditions indicating certain type and the medical treatment support request of the position of this situation is occurring. Such as, the request of the medical treatment support in the family seeming to suffer the people of asystolia is obtained. Under this imagination, the available UAV of the group of planes that central dispatching system 808 can assess UAV804 to select the family from that people nearest, this UAV are configured to provide medical treatment to support when heart trouble occurs. Or, central dispatching system 808 can be selected in the family from that people in scope (can or can not be nearest), and is configured to provide the available UAV of medical treatment support when asystolia occurs.
In other enforcement mode, central dispatching system 808 can be passed on medical treatment and be supported that request supports the local dispatching system 810 near requested position to this medical treatment, and leaves locality dispatching system 810 for by the selection of concrete UAV804. Such as, in the variation to above example, the request in the medical treatment support seeming to be subject in the family of the people of heart trouble can be passed on to the family near that people or from the local dispatching system 810 in family's distance of that people by central dispatching system 808. Upon receiving the request, then local dispatching system 810 can determine in the UAV of its association which be configured to provide the medical treatment support to heart attack patients, and dispose this UAV.
In an example layout, local dispatching system 810 in the identical position of the deployment system controlled with it or systems 812, can be implemented in computing system mode. Such as, in some embodiments, local dispatching system 810 can be implemented by computing system at the buildings place of such as firehouse, and the deployment system 812 associated with concrete local dispatching system 810 and UAV804 are also positioned at this buildings place. In other enforcement mode, local dispatching system 810 can be implemented in the position of the deployment system 812 of the association away from it and UAV804.
Many changes of layout and replacement to the medical support system 800 illustrated are possible. Such as, in some embodiments, the user of long-range equipment 806 directly can ask medical treatment support from center dispatching system 808. For this reason, application can provide the information about medical conditions permission user and produce and send request and realize on the long-range equipment 806 of the data-message of medical treatment support. Such application can also allow user to ask the medical treatment support (such as delivering certain medicine by request UAV) of particular type. In such enforcement mode, central dispatching system 808 can comprise automatic function to process the request produced by such application, assesses such request, and if suitable, coordinates to dispose UAV with suitable local dispatching system 810.
Further, in some implementations, what belong in the function of central dispatching system 808, local dispatching system () 810, access system 802 and/or deployment system () 812 herein some or all can be incorporated in single system in various mode, realize with more complicated system, and/or redistribute in the middle of central dispatching system 808, local dispatching system () 810, access system 802 and/or deployment system () 812.
Further, although each local dispatching system 810 is shown as having the deployment system of two associations, but given local dispatching system 810 can have the deployment system of more or less association. Similarly, communicate although central dispatching system 808 is shown as dispatching system 810 local with two, but central dispatching system can communicate with more or less local dispatching system 810.
In another further aspect, deployment system 812 can adopt various form. Usually, deployment system can be taked the form of the system for the UAV804 that in fact takes off or comprise such system. Further, deployment system 812 can be configured to the specific UAV804 that takes off, or multiple UAV804 that takes off. Deployment system 812 can be configured to provide additional function further, such as comprise the function relevant to diagnosis, such as check the function of equipment (such as such as defibrillator, mobile telephone or HMD) that the system function of UAV, inspection be placed in UAV and/or the equipment that maintenance is placed in UAV or other article (such as by defibrillator, mobile telephone or HMD charging, or by checking that medicine does not expire).
In some embodiments, deployment system 812 can be dispersed in the region in whole such as city in strategy with their corresponding UAV804 (and the local dispatching system 810 perhaps associated). Such as, deployment system 812 can be seated on the roof of some municipal buildings such as firehouse, thus described municipal buildings can be used as UAV804 send position. UAV is sent, firehouse can work well, because tending to be distributed well with reference to the density of population in firehouse, their roof tends to be smooth, and roof, firehouse can promote public interest as the use in the taxi space sent for UAV. But, depending on specific enforcement, deployment system 812 (and perhaps local dispatching system 810) can otherwise distribute.
In another further aspect, medical support system 800 can comprise account database 814, or can use account database 814. Account database 814 can comprise the data of a large number of users account, described user account each associate with one or more individual. For given user account, account database 814 can comprise the data relevant to the case history of the people associated or people, and/or can comprise other data relevant to the people associated or people. Note, medical support system can obtain, store and use relative data at people's explicit permission, only obtain, store and use the data relevant to this people.
Further, in some embodiments, in order to use or be provided to the medical treatment support of the UAV804 by means of medical support system 800, people can register the user account for medical support system 800. Like this, account database 814 can comprise the mandate information (such as user's name and password) of given user account, and/or can be used for authorizing the out of Memory of the access to user account.
In some embodiments, one or more in their equipment can be associated by people with their user account so that they can be provided the access of the service to medical support system 800. Such as, when people uses the mobile telephone of association such as phone the operator of access system 802 or send request the medical message supported to dispatching system, this phone can be identified by means of unique device id code, so this phone or message can be belonged to the user account of association. Except being licensing scheme or to substitute be licensing scheme, identify that user account can allow the information response of case history of such as people the request of medical treatment support to be used in them.
In another further aspect, account database 814 can comprise the data of the service level indicating each user. More specifically, medical support system 800 can provide service according to many different service levels, and described different service level is corresponding to dissimilar medical treatment support. Such as, compared with lower service level, higher service level can: (a) provides the right to use to the UAV of additional type; B () provides the medical treatment support to extra medical conditions; C () provides the right to use of the better support to given medical conditions; And/or (d) just has right of priority with regard to the time of response of medical treatment support request. Other difference between higher and lower service level is also possible.
In some embodiments, it is possible to not relevant with medical system independent user account; Or user account can exist, but the object and/or it is determined that the object of the medical quality supported provided that determine whether that people should be provided medical treatment support can be not used in. Such as, medical support system can be implemented to provide the medical treatment to civic is free or of equal value to support by municipality or other public organizations. Other example is also possible.
VI. the explanation component of UAV is supported in medical treatment
Fig. 9 is the simplified block diagram of the component illustrating the UAV900 according to an example embodiment. UAV900 can take the form of one of the UAV400 shown in Fig. 4,5,6 and 7,500,600 and 700, or in form similar to one of UAV400,500,600 and 700 shown in Fig. 4,5,6 and 7. But, UAV900 can also adopt other form. Further, UAV900 can comprise the component and parts that do not illustrate clearly, the component of the UAV100 shown in such as Figure 1A-B and 2A-C and 200 and parts.
UAV900 can comprise various types of sensor, and can comprise the computing system being configured to provide function described here. In the embodiment as shown, together with other possible sensor together with sensor-based system, the sensor of UAV900 comprises Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) 902, ultrasonic transducer () 904, GPS906, imaging system () 908.
In the embodiment as shown, UAV900 also comprises one or more treater 910. Treater 910 can be general procedure device or application specific processor (such as digital signal processor, specific end use unicircuit etc.). One or more treater 910 described can be configured to perform computer readable program instruction 914, and computer readable program instruction 914 is stored in data-carrier store 912 and is the function to provide UAV described here that can perform.
Data-carrier store 912 can comprise one or more computer-readable storage media, or taking the form of one or more computer-readable storage media, one or more computer-readable storage media described can be read by least one treater 910 or access. One or more computer-readable storage media described can comprise volatibility and/or non-volatile memories component, such as optics, magnetic, organic or other storer or multiple head unit, it can be overall or partly at least one with one or more treater 910 described is integrated. In some embodiments, data-carrier store 912 can use single physical device (such as optics, magnetic, organic or other storer or multiple head unit) to implement, in other embodiments, but data-carrier store 912 can use two or more physical devices to implement.
As described, data-carrier store 912 can comprise computer readable program instruction 914 and the diagnostic data of perhaps extra data such as UAV900. Like this, data-carrier store 914 can comprise the some or all programmed instruction carrying out or promoting in UAV function described herein. Such as, in the embodiment as shown, programmed instruction 914 comprises navigation module 915 and one or more medical treatment support module 916.
A. sensor
In an illustrated embodiment, IMU902 can comprise jerkmeter and gyrostat, jerkmeter and gyrostat can together with use the orientation determining UAV900. Especially, jerkmeter can measure the orientation of launch vehicle relative to the earth, and the rotating speed around axle measured by gyrostat. IMU can provide with low cost, low power encapsulation commercially. Such as, IMU902 can take miniaturization MEMS (micro electro mechanical system) (MEMS) or the form of nano electromechanical systems (NEMS), or comprises miniaturization Micro Electro Mechanical System (MEMS) or nano electromechanical systems (NEMS). The IMU of other type can also be used.
Except jerkmeter and gyrostat, IMU902 can also comprise can help other sensor determining the autonomy that position and/or help strengthen UAV900 better. Two examples of such sensor are magnetometer and pressure transmitter. Other example is also possible. (noting, UAV can also comprise such as aiding sensors with the component that IMU is separated. )
Although jerkmeter and gyrostat are determining it can is effective in the orientation of UAV900, but the slight error in measuring can be aggravated along with the time and be caused more significant error. But, an example UAV900 can alleviate with the use of magnetometer measures direction or reduce such error. An example of magnetometer is low-power digital 3 axle magnetometer, and it can be used to realize the orientation independent electronic compass for accurate course information. But, the magnetometer of other type can also be used.
UAV900 can also comprise pressure transmitter or weather gauge, and it can be used for determining the height of UAV900. Or, other sensor of such as sonic level meter or radar height indicator can be used for providing the instruction of height, and it can help improve the accuracy of IMU and/or prevent the drift of IMU.
In another further aspect, UAV900 can comprise one or more sensor allowing the object in UAV testing environment. Such as, in the embodiment as shown, UAV900 comprises ultrasonic transducer () 904. Ultrasonic transducer () 904 is by producing sound wave and determines that the transmission of sound wave and reception are set out the timed interval between the corresponding echo of object, it is determined that to the distance of object. It is low latitude Altitude control and obstacle avoidance for the common application of unmanned launch vehicle or the ultrasonic transducer of IMU. Ultrasonic transducer can also be used for needing hovering over certain height or needs can detect the launch vehicle of obstacle. Other system can be used for determining, detecting the existence of neighbouring object, and/or determine the distance of neighbouring object, such as optical detection and range finding (LIDAR) system, lidar light detection and ranging (LADAR) system and/or infrared rays or FLIR (Forward-Looking Infrared) line (FLIR) system, also have other possibility.
UAV900 also comprises gps receiver 906. Gps receiver 906 can be configured to provide the data representing well-known gps system, the gps coordinate of such as UAV900. Such gps data can be used for various function by UAV900. Such as, when calling person use running gear request from UAV medical treatment support time, running gear can provide its gps coordinate. Like this, UAV can use its gps receiver 906 to help navigation to the position of the calling person indicated by the gps coordinate of their running gear offer at least in part. Other example is also possible.
UAV900 can also comprise one or more imaging system () 908. Such as, one or more static image and/or video cameras can be used to catch view data from the environment of UAV by UAV900. As a concrete example, charge coupled device (CCD) Kamera or complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) function of photographing is used to unmanned launch vehicle. Such imaging sensor () 908 has many possible application, such as obstacle avoidance, location technology, for Deep space tracking (such as by application optic flow technique to image), video feed and/or the pattern recognition more accurately navigated by water and process, also has other possibility.
In another further aspect, UAV900 can use its one or more imaging system 908 to help determine position. Such as, UAV900 can catch the image of its environment and compared with it being seen in its environment with in given current estimation position (such as its Current GPS coordinate) expection, and compare the assessment of the position to it improving it according to this.
In another further aspect, UAV900 can comprise one or more microphone. Such microphone can be configured to catch sound from UAV environment.
B. navigation and position are determined
Navigation module 915 can provide permission UAV900 such as movable in its environment and arrive the function in predetermined position. For this reason, module 915 of navigating can by the height of mechanical part (water screw 410 of such as UAV400) the control flight of the impact flight of control UAV and/or direction.
In order to the UAV900 that navigates is to target location, navigation module 915 can implement various airmanship, such as, such as based on the navigation of map with based on the navigation located. For the navigation based on map, UAV900 can equip the map of its environment, so this map can be used for the concrete place navigating on map. For the navigation based on location, UAV900 can use to be positioned in unknown environment and navigate by water. The UAV900 setting up its map of environment about it and calculate its position in this map and/or target position in this context can be related to based on the navigation of location. Such as, along with UAV900 moves throughout its environment, UAV900 can use location to upgrade its map about this environment continuously. This continuous print mapping process can be called as synchronous superposition (SLAM). Other airmanship can also be used.
In some embodiments, module 915 of navigating can use the technology navigation depending on way point. Especially, way point is the set of the coordinate of the position in mark real space. Such as, air navigation way point by certain latitude, longitude and highly can limit. Therefore, navigation module 915 can make UAV900 move to way point from way point, proceeds to point of destination (way point last in such as a series of way point) with final line.
In another further aspect, other component and the system of navigation module 915 and/or UAV900 can be configured to navigate to " location " at medical conditions scene more accurately. More specifically, in some cases it is possible to wish that UAV is near the people's (such as in the at arm's length scope of people) needing medical treatment to support, thus medical treatment correctly is provided to support to this people. For this reason, UAV can use dual method, wherein it uses more rough position to determine that technology navigates to the target location relevant with medical conditions or region, then uses the target location that meticulousr position is determined technology identification and/or navigated in general areas.
Such as, the way point that the gps coordinate that UAV900 can use the long-range equipment at the scene according to medical conditions to provide pre-determines navigates to the general areas of people in need. Then, UAV can be switched to its use position fixing process location and march to the pattern of the specific position of people in need. Such as, if people is in the outbreak of large-scale stadium heart trouble, the UAV900 carrying medical treatment bag may need to make this people can get article from medical treatment bag in someone the at arm's length scope near this people or this people. But, up to now, gps signal only can make UAV such as arrive stadium. Then, more accurate position determines that technology can be used for finding the specific position of this people in stadium.
Once UAV900 has navigate to the general areas of people, various types of position determines that technology can be used for the location to people. Such as, UAV900 can equip one or more detection system, such as such as imaging system () 908, directional microphone array (not shown), ultrasonic transducer 904, infrared sensor (not shown) and/or other sensor, it can provide navigation module 915 be used for independently or partly navigate to the input of the specific position of people independently.
As other example, once UAV900 is to the general areas of intelligent, UAV900 can be switched to " controlled flight (fly-by-wire) " pattern, it is controlled by remote control person at least in part in this mode, and UAV900 can be navigate to the specific position of people in need by this remote control person. For this reason, they navigate UAV to specific position to assist can be sent to remote control person from the sensing data of UAV900. Such as, UAV900 can transmit instant video or a series of static image as a stream from the imaging system () 908 of UAV. Other example is possible.
As another example, UAV900 can comprise can signal to bystander with the module of auxiliary arrival specific position or the medical treatment support article delivering it for medical conditions; Such as by showing image message in graphic alphanumeric display, by loud speaker audio plays message or single-tone, flash of light, or carry out the combination of such function. Such image or audio message can indicate to be needed to assist when the people carrying UAV900 extremely to need, and can provide and assist bystander to carry UAV900 to the information of this people, such as to the description of the description of this people, the name of this people and/or the specific position to this people, also has other possibility. When UAV can not use sensing function or other position to determine technology to determine the specific position of this people, this implementation method can be useful.
As an extra example, once UAV900 is to the general areas of intelligent, UAV can use the beacon from long-range equipment (mobile telephone of people that such as calling medical treatment is supported) to locate this people. Such beacon can adopt various form. As an example, it is contemplated that the situation of mobile telephone energy sender tropism's signal (such as RF signal, optical signal and/or sound signal) of long-range equipment such as people in need or onlooker. In this situation, UAV can be configured to by such directivity signal " tracing to the source " in other words, by determine this signal where the most by force and correspondingly navigate. As other example, running gear can be emitted in the frequency in human perception range or outside human perception range, and UAV can hear this frequency and correspondingly navigate. As a relevant example, if UAV hears oral account order, then UAV could utilize oral account instruction such as " help! I am here! " find the specific position of the people needing medical aid.
Substituting in arrangement one, navigation module can realize at the remote computing device place that wirelessly communicate with UAV. Remote computing device can receive the data of the operational stage indicating UAV, allow its evaluation sensing data from UAV of envrionment conditions that suffers of UAV and/or positional information of UAV. Have such information, remote computing device can determine the height that UAV should carry out and/or direction adjustment, and/or can determine that mechanical part (water screw 410 of such as UAV400) that how UAV should adjust it is to realize such motion. So remote computation system can send such adjustment to UAV, it can move according to the mode determined like this.
C. communication system
In another further aspect, UAV900 comprises one or more communication system 920. Communication system 920 can comprise allow UAV900 via one or more of network communicate one or more of without line interface and/or one or more of wired circuit interface. Such can prepare communication under one or more of wireless communication protocol without line interface, such as bluetooth, WiFi (such as IEEE802.11 agreement), long-term evolution (LTE), WiMAX (such as IEEE802.16 standard), Radio Frequency ID (RFID) agreement, near-field communication (NFC) and/or other wireless communication protocol. Such wired circuit interface can comprise Ethernet interface, general serial bus (USB) interface or similar interface with via electric wire, twisted-pair feeder, concentric cable, optical link, optical fiber link or other physical connection and wired networks communication.
In an example embodiment, UAV900 can comprise communication system 920, and communication system 920 allows closely communication and long distance communications. Such as, UAV900 can for using the closely communication of bluetooth and be configured for the long distance communications under CDMA agreement. In such enforcement mode, UAV900 can be configured to be used as " focus ", or in other words, as the gateway between remote support equipment and one or more of data network such as cellular mobile network and/or Internet or proxy server. According to being configured like this, UAV900 can promote the data corresponding that remote support equipment can not carry out alone in other cases.
Such as, UAV900 can provide the WiFi with long-range equipment to be connected, and with accomplishing the proxy server of data network or the gateway of mobile telecommunication service supplier, UAV such as can connect the data network of mobile telecommunication service supplier under LTE or 3G agreement. UAV900 can also with proxy server or the gateway of accomplishing the combination of aerostat network, satellite network or these networks that long-range equipment may not be accessed in other cases etc.
D. power system
In another further aspect, UAV900 can comprise power system () 921. Power system 921 can comprise one or more battery for providing electric power to UAV900. In one example, one or more battery described can recharge, and each battery can be re-charged electricity via the wired connection between battery and power supply and/or via the wireless charging system such as responding to charge system, the induction charge system magnetic field changed in time that internally battery applying is outside.
E. function is supported in medical treatment
As mentioned above, it is necessary, UAV900 can comprise one or more medical treatment support module 916. One or more medical treatment support module 916 described comprises software, firmware and/or the hardware that can help to provide or participate in the offer of medical treatment support function described herein.
According to such configuration, UAV900 can provide medical treatment support in various mode. Such as, UAV900 can have the information that can be provided to the people of target location or the storage of people, to assist described people or people to provide medical treatment and nursing. Such as, UAV can comprise the video or audio file with the guidance for providing medical treatment support, and UAV can play described file to the people of target location. As other example, UAV can comprise the mutual program assisting the people of target location to provide medical treatment support. Such as, UAV can comprise the language analyzing people to detect the problem relevant to medical conditions and/or provides people can ask the interface based on word of such problem via it, it is then determined that such problem and such problem is provided the application of answer.
In some embodiments, UAV900 can promote the communication between the medical matters personnel of on-the-spot non-specialised staff and/or medical matters personnel and remote location. As an example, medical treatment support module 916 can provide user interface, and by means of this user interface, on-the-spot people can use the communication system 920 of UAV to communicate with the emergency medical service expert of remote location. As other example, UAV900 can unlock some function of the on-the-spot long-range equipment such as mobile telephone near UAV of medical conditions. The user of long-range equipment can be unavailable by such function, unless this long-range equipment from UAV distance in make UAV can unlock this function. Such as, UAV sends safe key can to long-range equipment, and this safe key allows long-range equipment to set up safe connecting with the medical matters people communication with remote location. Other example is also possible.
Further, in order to provide medical treatment to support at remote location, it is on-the-spot to medical conditions that UAV900 can be configured to shipping goods. Such article assisted diagnosis and/or treatment can need the people of medical aid, or can serve other object. Exemplarily, such article can comprise: (a) medicine; (b) diagnositc equipment, such as pulse oximeter, blood pressure transducer or EKG sensor; (c) therapeutic equipment, such as epinephrine injection device (EpiPen), medicine bag or various defibrillator (such as automated external defibrillator (AED)); And/or (d) remote support equipment, such as mobile telephone or can head-wearing device (HMD), also have other may. Noting, some are that the article of electronics can comprise one or more battery providing electric power to these article. These batteries can recharge, and one or more of wired or wireless charging system can be used to recharge. Additional or alternatively, in order to electric power, article can be integrated with one or more battery in power system 921.
UAV900 can use various system and layout on-the-spot to medical conditions with shipping goods. Such as, as shown in Figure 4, UAV400 can comprise cabin 435, and article or article can be transported wherein. As other example, UAV can comprise pickup and placement mechanism, and it can be picked up simultaneously in UAV flight and keep this article, then discharges this article during the decline of UAV or after the decline of UAV. As another example, UAV can comprise can eminence operation above medical conditions with fall or decline article or article to the air bag arrest systems at medical conditions scene, parachuting system and/or capstan system. Other example is also possible.
In some implementation methods, given UAV900 can comprise " bag " that design for specific medical conditions (or may in order to the specific collection of medical conditions). Bag can comprise under specific medical conditions medical treatment support one or more of article and/or be designed under specific medical conditions provide medical treatment support one or more of medical treatment support modules 916. Sometimes, UAV900 can comprise for specific medical conditions such as suffocate, asystolia, shock, asthma, drowned etc. and the bag that designs.
In other cases, UAV900 can comprise the bag designed for many different medical conditions, and described different medical conditions can associate in some way. Such as, diving accident bag can be designed as the nursing providing or helping to provide and often dive under water with SCUBA under (scubadiving) accident is such as drowned and/or decompression sickness is relevant various medical conditions. Such diving accident bag can comprise floatation device, oxygen therapy system, for the system of output image and/or sense of hearing medical treatment and nursing instruction (such as carrying out the instruction of CPR) and/or signalling set, also have other possibility. The UAV900 being configured with such diving accident bag can be called as " diving is rescued " UAV herein. Such diving rescues the firm scuba diver having an accident when SCUBA is dived under water that UAV can be deployed on the water surface, and this UAV is hopeful the situation more possible than other to arrive this scuba diver quickly and carry medical treatment.
Such as, equipment has above diving accident bag, and UAV900 can fall floatation device to help scuba diver to remain floating until scuba diver can be caught by rescuer. In addition, UAV can comprise signalling set, and it can be automatically opened when UAV fixed location diving person. Do like this and can help ambulance ship fixed location diving person more rapidly. Further, once scuba diver is rescued, UAV can show for the visual instructions of CPR and/or play for the audible instructions of CPR, and described instruction can help drowned victim is revived. Such instruction can be particularly useful when scuba diver is rescued by non-medical professional; If such as scuba diver is rescued by the fishing boat of process.
Further, when UAV arrives diving accident scene, or more possibility ground is once scuba diver has been moved on ambulance ship, and UAV can provide oxygen therapy system, and is provided for the instruction that it uses if possible, to treat possible decompression sickness. Because ambulance ship may not have oxygen therapy system, and the probability giving to illustrate that raising recovers from decompression sickness immediately of pure oxygen, so such function of UAV can improve the treatment to the scuba diver suffering decompression sickness.
In some embodiments, UAV900 can comprise integrated system or the equipment (such as having by the system of the one or more of components of the built-in structure to UAV oneself or equipment) for giving or help to give medical treatment and nursing. Such as, as mentioned above, it is necessary, UAV can comprise oxygen therapy system. In an example layout, oxygen therapy system can comprise mask, and the oxygen source that this mask carries by means of pipe and machine is connected. According to such configuration, when UAV can arrive people (such as in scene of fire) that need oxygen at it, releasing oxygen face shield.
As the other example having integrated medical and propping up the UAV of holding equipment, UAV900 can be used as mobile defibrillator. Specifically, UAV oneself can be used as defibrillator, instead of carries independent defibrillator, so independent defibrillator can take off from UAV can use.
As a concrete example, multi-rotor aerocraft can comprise the component of the AED in the fuselage being built into it, and for implementing the retractable electrode pad of electroshock to the people of experience cardiac event or stopping. When multi-rotor aerocraft arrive cardiac arrest on-the-spot time, multi-rotor aerocraft can land, its water screw of stopping using, and enters pattern that its is used as AED. Specifically, after landing, multi-rotor aerocraft can discharge its retractable electrode pad, and provides instruction so that can be that the onlooker of non-specialised staff can use this electronic pads that the people of cardiac arrest is implemented nursing. Such instruction such as by showing word and/or video built-in to the graphic alphanumeric display of the fuselage of multi-rotor aerocraft, and/or can be provided by audio plays instruction. Multi-rotor aerocraft can also comprise wireless communication interface, and onlooker can communicate with real remote control person (such as the medical professional at remote location place) by means of it, to receive the instruction for using AED.
There is the many other example of the UAV of integrated medical supporting system and equipment and also it is possible to the change of its above example. Such as, alleviate weight when medical facilities are integrated in the structure of UAV oneself, improve aerodynamics, and/or the people simplifying medical conditions scene to the use of this equipment time, medical facilities can be integrated in the structure of UAV oneself. Further, it will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art that in other situations and can be integrated in the structure of UAV in order to other reason, medical support system or equipment.
In some applications, UAV900 can be dispatched to medical conditions scene to provide intelligence as medical matters personnel in advance. Especially, UAV900 can be sent, because expecting that it arrives the position of medical conditions quickly than the speed that medical matters personnel can arrive. In this situation, UAV900 can reach the spot, and by transmitting information to medical matters personnel and provide situation perception to provide intelligence in advance. Such as, UAV900 can use its imaging system () 908 at medical conditions captured at jobsite video and/or static image, and UAV900 can transmit video and/or static image to medical treatment and/or first-aid personnel. As other example, people in need can be implemented initial survey by UAV900, or requires that onlooker implements some preliminary deagnostic test and/or provides certain information. So UAV900 can send such assay and/or such information of providing by onlooker to medical treatment and/or first-aid personnel. UAV900 can also provide the early stage information documents of other type.
By providing early stage information to medical treatment and/or first-aid personnel, UAV900 can help medical treatment and/or first-aid personnel for providing nursing to prepare so that once these personnel reach the spot, more effective nursing can be provided. Such as, UAV900 can send the information of video, assay and/or onlooker's offer to medical matters personnel when medical matters personnel are traveling in their extremely on-the-spot way in ambulance, in fire-engine, information that video, assay and/or onlooker provide is sent when they are to on-the-spot way to firemen or other personnel firemen or other personnel, and/or in police's information that transmission video, assay and/or onlooker provide when they are to on-the-spot way in enforcement vehicle to police, also have other possibility.
It will be clear that the example of medical treatment support function provided herein is not to be limited. UAV can be configured to provide other type medical treatment to support function, and does not depart from the scope of the present invention.
In another further aspect, example UAV can be configured to fly to delivery position from firing site. Figure 10 is schema, and it illustrates the method 1000 of the UAV advancing to target location for disposing according to an example embodiment. Method 1000 can in conjunction with flying to target location and be implemented hovering over carrier agent to the exemplary method such as method 300 on ground that declines above target location simultaneously.
Method 1000 completely or partially by the component in medical support system or components, such as can be performed by one or more component in the component of the medical support system 800 shown in Fig. 8. For the purpose of simple, method 1000 can be described generally as being by medical support system, such as performs by one or more in access system 802, central dispatching system 808, local dispatching system 810 and/or deployment system 812. But, it will be clear that the exemplary method of such as method 1000 can be performed by the combination (namely by the combination of other calculating device and/or calculating device) of other mechanism or mechanism, and do not depart from the scope of the present invention.
As shown at block 1002, method 1000 comprises the medical support system identifying tele-medicine situation. Medical support system can also determine the target location corresponding to this medical conditions, as shown in square frame 1004. So, medical support system can select UAV from multiple UAV, the judgement that the medical conditions being wherein identification based on the UAV selected at least in part to the selection of UAV configures, as shown in 1006. More specifically, in an illustrated embodiment, medical support system can have many UAV that can be used for sending, and described UAV is that many different medical conditions configure (wherein in UAV some or all differently configured mutually). Therefore, at square frame 1006, medical support system can select to be suitable for the specific UAV of the medical conditions being identified. So medical support system can make the UAV of selection advance to target location to provide medical treatment support, as shown in square frame 1008.
F. tele-medicine situation is identified
At the square frame 1002 of method 1000, various types of medical conditions can be identified. Such as, medical support system can identify the medical conditions of such as heart trouble outbreak, apoplexy, anaphylactic shock, fracture, heatstroke or the generation of any medical conditions in other medical conditions in a large number. More generally, medical conditions can be people or perhaps even animal (such as pet dog or cat) may benefit from medical treatment support or treatment any situation.
But, in some embodiments, more urgent needs can be placed in the situation being classified as the medical conditions that UAV should be dispatched to by medical support system. Especially, because it can be expensive for disposing and run UAV, so medical support system can only compared to tradition emergency-response service, it is desirable to UAV provides and sends UAV when more instant and/or more senior medical treatment support. In some embodiments, medical support system it is even possible that set about cost interest analysis, to determine to send whether the expection benefit of UAV surpasses the expense done like this. For determine what quilt and be not considered the use proving UAV be to other standard of medical conditions be also possible, and can change according to concrete implementation method.
In other enforcement mode, the benefit making UAV earlier arrive there can be enough big, so that possible medical conditions one is reported, UAV just can be deployed; And need not wait and judge whether the use of UAV is proved to be proper. Then, in the time (such as 30-60 second after taking off) after a while, medical support system can have better understanding about the described possible medical conditions medical conditions whether UAV should be deployed. If for not, then UAV can recall; Or if it does not receive and indicates the message of position that it should proceed to described medical conditions, UAV can return automatically.
At square frame 1002, the reception that the identification of tele-medicine situation can relate to medical support system derives from the communication of long-range equipment, and the component of the information identification tele-medicine situation provided according to described communication. Such communication can adopt various form, and phone, text information or the electronic information such as produced by the application of long-range equipment, this is as just some examples. In some embodiments, the robot brain program on long-range equipment can serve as Notify Party, and initiates the communication reporting medical conditions. Such as, health monitoring device can detect possible medical conditions, such as apoplexy or heart trouble, and automatically notifies medical support system. Other example is also possible.
In some embodiments, described communication can comprise positional information, such as the gps coordinate of long-range equipment. Such positional information can be used to judge at square frame 1004 position of long-range equipment, and the position of long-range equipment can be assumed to be again the position of medical conditions or be used to judge the position of medical conditions in another manner.
Further, in order to identify what concrete medical conditions is, medical support system can utilize the information provided via the communication from long-range equipment. Specifically, such information can be used to identify better the type of the medical conditions having arguement, or the rank of the medical conditions being used to identify the medical conditions qualified use of possibility of people. In some embodiments, this information can be provided by the people of the long-range equipment of operation, and he can be called as " Notify Party " herein. Such as, Notify Party may provide the information (such as " my friend has just fallen in a swoon and spasm " or " my present pectoralgia ") of the symptom being observed of such as people in need. Notify Party might intend in person to express type (" my brother's apoplexy of acute disease in some situation! "). Further, Notify Party may provide positional information and/or the information of other type relevant to medical conditions.
The information provided via the communication from long-range equipment can adopt various form. Such as, when they simply can talk with real operator (such as the real operator at access system 802 place), Notify Party can provide information via voice call. Or, voice this module of larding speech with literary allusions can be implemented by medical support system, taking by from the speech conversion of phone as text, so the text can be analyzed to draw the information about medical conditions. The information relevant to medical conditions can also via text, and the information such as produced via text information or the application on long-range equipment provides.
In some embodiments, medical support system can obtain information from the view data at medical conditions captured at jobsite, and then this information can be used for judging what concrete medical conditions is. Such view data can be caught by the long-range equipment at medical conditions scene and/or send from the long-range equipment at medical conditions scene. Especially, Notify Party can use the Kamera capturing video of their mobile telephone and/or static image and send video and/or static image to medical support system, it may be that real-time. Exemplarily, onlooker can catch image or the video of infringement limbs, or the video of the accident that may or even occurring, and gives such view data of medical support system. Other example is possible.
In some embodiments, the information provided by Notify Party can comprise the data of other type. Such as, long-range equipment can comprise for reporting the application that medical conditions and/or request medical treatment are supported. Such application can provide UI, and this UI has the parts allowing the user of long-range equipment to provide rapidly the information about medical conditions. Such as, user can click and indicate them and think the button of the medical conditions that there occurs what type, selects check box to indicate symptom of observing etc. from symptom inventory. Further, such application can allow user to initiate to relay the data indicating the information provided to the communication of medical support system. Other example is also possible.
In some embodiments, the out of Memory that the information provided by Notify Party can be known with medical support system or medical support system can be accessed is combined. As an example, it is contemplated that on date of Fahrenheit 100 degree, Notify Party at seabeach from their mobile calls medical support system and " has people just to fall in a swoon here! " situation. So, medical support system can judge the position of mobile telephone, it may also be useful to the ground diagram data of improvement determines that the position of mobile telephone is on seabeach, and looks into the Current Temperatures seeking determined position. Then, using together with the fact correspond to seabeach by the talk information of Notify Party and local temperature and positional information, medical support system can be derived medical conditions and be likely heatstroke or correlation circumstance.
In enforcement mode described above, square frame 1002 relates to the various types of information of use and determines that what medical support system is concrete medical conditions be likely on one's own initiative. As other example, and see Fig. 8, when the operator that long-range equipment 806 contacts access system 802 place reports medical conditions, access system can automatically be extracted and analyze from the described information communicated what or the list determining possible medical conditions according to available information medical conditions be to identify. Then access system 802 can show the instruction of the medical conditions identified or the list of possible medical conditions, make operator can confirm or select them to believe the medical conditions occurred, and if being suitable, then dispatching system (such as central dispatching system 808) is indicated to send UAV. Or, when access system actively identifies concrete medical conditions, access system can indicate dispatching system to send UAV automatically, and need not ask the mandate from operator.
Note, sometimes, can simply relate to the identification of tele-medicine situation receiving and indicate the medical support system that what communication is medical conditions be. Such as, in other words, by long-range equipment or by the human operator who (such as the real operator of access system 802) of medical support system, medical support system can tell that medical conditions is what identifies medical conditions by passive.
G. target location is determined
As mentioned above, it is necessary, the square frame 1004 of method 1000 relates to the medical support system determining the target location corresponding to the medical conditions identified. Such as, when medical conditions is apprised of in emergency response service, described service is by may it needs to be determined that the Position Approximate of people in need so that UAV can be deployed to assist this people.
In some embodiments, target location can be the position (or estimation position of the position of such people or people or positions) of people or the people probably benefiting from medical treatment support under given medical conditions. Such as, if needing the mobile telephone emergency call of the people of medical treatment and nursing from them, then target location can be confirmed as the position of their mobile telephone or the position according to their mobile telephone and determines in addition. As other example, if onlooker from their mobile telephone emergency call to report the medical conditions relating to other people, then can suppose onlooker or near this other people position, or can determine in addition onlooker or near this other people position. Therefore, target location can be configured to the position (or the position according to the mobile telephone of onlooker determine in addition) of the mobile telephone of onlooker.
In other enforcement mode, target location can be different from the position of people or the people that may benefit from medical treatment support. Such as, consider that emergency medical service expert (EMT) or paramedic are near the position of the people needing medical treatment to support, but EMT or paramedic do not have the situation of the medical supplies of some that are that the medical treatment and nursing that can be provided needs or that can improve the medical treatment and nursing that can be provided. In this situation, medical support system can send the position of UAV to EMT or paramedic to carry medical supplies to EMT or paramedic so that medical supplies can be with to medical conditions on-the-spot with them by they. Further, sometimes, UAV is it is even possible that be configured to when EMT or paramedic advance conveying medical supplies to medical conditions scene to EMT or paramedic. In the case, when EMT or paramedic advance to scene, target location (position of such as EMT or paramedic) can be dynamically updated to reflect the movement of EMT or paramedic.
Target location can be determined in many ways, and can based on various types of positional information. Such as, in some embodiments, target location can be determined according to the information that long-range equipment provides, and the instruction of medical conditions receives from this long-range equipment. Such as, it is contemplated that onlooker calls out " 911 " and says and " have people just to fall in a swoon near me! " situation. Usually, when receiving phone, the police also receive positional information, such as gps coordinate, and it identifies the position of long-range equipment. Then this positional information can be made to be applicable to medical support system, or can otherwise use to determine target location. Such as, when long-range equipment makes a phone call report medical conditions, the operator at access system place or Automatic dispatching system can determine the position of long-range equipment according to such gps coordinate received.
Medical support system can determine and/or be provided to the information that can be used for determining target location to otherwise. Such as, in some embodiments, it is determined that the some or all of of the process of target location can be operated automatically, or, the intervention of people is not in other words needed by carrying out. For this reason, medical support system can utilize any suitable information discriminating technology, such as such as speech recognition (when notice is uttered) or Text region (when notice is typed to), other technology that is that know now in addition or that develop subsequently. As an example, it is contemplated that onlooker calls out " 911 " and says and " have people just to fall in a swoon near me! I am in No. 123, mountain scene zone center street. " situation. In the case, Automatic dispatching system can be applied voice present treatment of larding speech with literary allusions and to analyze the words of onlooker and thus determines described address.
It is provided for illustrative purposes for determining the above technology of such target location, instead of to be become restriction. It will be clear that other technology can be used for the target location determining that UAV can be sent by medical support system.
H. unmanned flight's device is selected
As mentioned above, it is necessary, at the square frame 1006 of method 1000, medical support system can be selected to be configured to the UAV that concrete medical conditions provides medical treatment support. Especially, medical support system can comprise or can use many dissimilar UAV, and described UAV is configured under various different medical situation provides medical treatment to support. Like this, different UAV can be said to be has different " configuration are supported in medical treatment ". Thus, square frame 1006 can relate to the medical support system selecting to have the UAV that possibility provides for concrete medical conditions or help the medical medical treatment support supported of offer to configure.
Sometimes, the medical treatment support configuration of the UAV of given type can comprise the bag of one or more article, and one or more article described are designed to provide for a certain medical conditions or help to provide medical treatment to support. Such as, the UAV of given type can comprise acetylsalicylic acid and defibrillator, thus may be selected the UAV being suitable for disposing when the instruction that medical support system receives heart trouble or cardiac arrest is occurring or just occurring. Other examples many are also possible.
Additionally or alternatively, the medical treatment support configuration of the UAV of given type can comprise one or more of operating function, and described one or more of operating function is configured to tele-medicine situation provides medical treatment support or assist the medical treatment support for tele-medicine situation. Such as, UAV can comprise the radio communication function allowing remote medical personnel to assist on-the-spot medical matters personnel. Such as, UAV can comprise mobile telephone or HMD at its bag, by mobile telephone or HMD, onlooker can communicate with remote medical personnel and receive instruction from remote medical personnel so that onlooker can be apprised of such as how for injured or suffer the people of certain medical conditions to provide nursing. As other example, UAV can comprise the programming logic (such as medical treatment support module () 816) allowing UAV to carry out some deagnostic test, and wherein UAV analyzes the data that some sensor-based system from UAV obtains. Other example is also possible.
In some embodiments, the concrete people selection of UAV can will being provided to based on medical treatment support at least in part. Such as, medical support system can determine the concrete user account that is associated with medical conditions. So, medical support system can determine the service level of concrete user account, and uses this service level as the basis selecting UAV.
Such as, may there be some UAV that can be deployed to provide medical treatment to support under concrete medical conditions. But, because all reasons, in UAV, specific UAV can only be deployed to someone, and the service rank that he is higher has paid expense, or otherwise has the right to use higher service rank. Correspondingly, this specific UAV can only be selected when the people being involved in medical conditions is authorized to this higher service rank. Noting, sometimes, the service rank owing to specific communication can be the authorized service rank used of people (victim of such as accident) that UAV will provide medical treatment to support to it. But, in other situations, service rank can be someone service rank of the people being different from and needing medical treatment and nursing. Such as, represent in need other people kinsfolk, friend or or even the onlooker of medical conditions can have and specifically serve rank, this is specifically served rank and allows them to ask and this medical treatment support that specifically service rank is suitable.
Specific user account can be determined in various mode. Such as, the calculating device that people can link them such as their mobile telephone to the user account supported for medical treatment. Correspondingly, medical support system can determine providing the identification number of the long-range equipment of the instruction of medical conditions, and uses this identification number to look into the medical treatment support user account seeking association. Or, the people that request medical treatment is supported can provide identification and/or registration information so that medical treatment supports that user account can by medical support system identification and/or checking. For determining that other technology of specific user account is also possible.
In another further aspect, the case history relevant to the specific people needing medical treatment to support and/or other information can be used to select suitable UAV. Such as, to the delivery of the prescription medicine outputed by non-physician can by strictly control, even if in emergency circumstances also like this. In order to promote checking and delivering such medicine, medical support system can comprise selectivity and add register book, and it comprises the name of people and everyone has the list of the medicine of effective prescription now for it. In order to promote diagnosis, selectivity adds the list that register book may further include the individual known medical conditions that may cause critical care. In fact, given user account can indicate such recipe authorization information, known medical conditions and/or other medical information for this people. Therefore, medical support system can access the user account of the people needing medical treatment to support to determine whether they have the prescription for specific medicine, thus the UAV comprising this specific medicine can be sent.
I. the UAV selected is sent
The UAV selected is made to march to target location to provide the medical support system of medical treatment support as mentioned above, it is necessary, the square frame 1008 of method 1000 relates to, as shown in square frame 1008. Depending on specific implementation method, this function can realize in various mode.
In some embodiments, square frame 1008 can simply relate to the component that the transmission information of medical support system should be deployed to indicate the UAV selected to other mechanism. Such as, if method 1000 is performed by access system 802, then access system can identify medical conditions, selects the UAV of suitable type, and the information that sends is to central dispatching system 808, and the UAV that this information indicates selected type should be dispatched to target location. As other example, if method 1000 is performed by central dispatching system 808, then central dispatching system can identify medical conditions, selects the UAV of suitable type, and the information that sends is to the dispatching system 808 of locality, and the UAV that this information indicates selected type should be dispatched to target location. In either case, then central dispatching system 808 can relay the dispatching system 810 of this information to suitable locality, and the dispatching system 810 of suitable locality can run the UAV that deployment system is selected to take off.
In some embodiments, the transmission instruction deployment system that square frame 1008 can relate to medical support system takes off the information of the UAV selected or directly run one or more component of the UAV that deployment system is selected to take off. Further, square frame 1008 can relate to medical support system such as by determining and arrange one or more component that the way point allowing UAV to navigate to target location prepares to march to the UAV selected of target location.
VII. conclusion
It will be clear that system as above can be implemented with the form of the programming logic (i.e. programmed instruction) on the computer-readable medium being stored in non-provisional, or such programming logic (i.e. programmed instruction) can be comprised. Such as, example system can adopt the form of computer software, hardware and/or firmware, or can by modularization or integrated in the way of comprise such software, hardware and/or firmware. According to open and instruction provided herein, those of ordinary skill in the art can know and understand the alternate manner and/or method that use hardware, firmware and/or software.
Further, when example embodiment relates to relevant to the equipment of people or people information, enforcement mode should be understood to include the control that maintains secrecy. Such secrecy control at least comprises the anonymization to equipment identifier, the transparency and user's control, and user's control comprises enables user revise or delete with user the function using relevant information of product.
Further, the personal information about user is collected in enforcement mode discussed herein, or when can utilize personal information, user can have a sequence of control or parts whether collect whether user profile (such as about the information of case history of user, social network, Social behaviors or activity, occupation, the preference of user or the current position of user) or control receive from content service device can the content more relevant with user and/or how to receive opportunity of this content from content service device. In addition, some data can be processed in one or more of mode before it is stored or uses so that individual can be removed by identifying information. Such as, the identity of user can be processed and make to can not determine that individual can identifying information for this user, or when obtaining positional information, (such as to city, the rank in zip code or state) can be summarized in the geographical position of user so that the concrete place of user can not be determined. Thus, user can have the control information about user how being collected He how being used by content service device.
Concrete arrangement shown in figure should not be counted as restriction. It will be clear that other enforcement mode can more or less comprise each element shown in given figure. Further, some in shown element can merged or omission. Further, illustrative embodiments can comprise not shown element.
In addition, although being disclosed herein various aspect and enforcement mode, but other aspect and enforcement mode can be obvious to those skilled in the art. Various aspect disclosed herein and enforcement mode are to illustrate, instead of to be become restriction, and real scope and spirit are indicated by claim. When not departing from the spirit or scope of the theme presented herein, it is possible to use enforcement mode in addition, and other change can be carried out. To be understood easily, describe widely and the many aspects of the present disclosure that illustrate in the drawings can be arranged with different structure of all kinds, replace, combine, be separated and design at this, all these are expected clearly in this.