CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority under 35 U.S. C. §119(e) and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/691,760, filed Aug. 21, 2012, and entitled, “GEO-LOCATION BASED CONTENT PUBLISHING PLATFORM,” U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/691,763, filed Aug. 21, 2012, and entitled, “SCROLLABLE NOTIFICATIONS,” and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/691,765, filed Aug. 21, 2012, and entitled, “NOTIFICATION RELATED TO PREDICTED FUTURE GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION OF MOBILE DEVICE,” the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
This present disclosure relates to electronic devices, in particular to providing content on electronic devices.
A mobile phone application may use instant notifications to get a user's attention. Instant notifications may be designed to allow for easy consumption of information, without requiring the user to take any action. Instant notifications are similar to incoming phone calls. For example, the phone screen may be initially switched off and the phone may be in the user's pocket. When the instant notification happens, an audio signal may sound, the phone may vibrate, and the screen may switch on with a notification card displayed. The displayed card or notification allows the user to take a quick look to see if the information is of interest to the user. Instant notifications may appear on top of the mobile device's locked screen.
SUMMARY
In one aspect, the disclosed subject matter relates to a method for displaying scrollable notifications for unlocking an electronic device. The method includes a step for receiving a notification from an application for display on a locked screen of an electronic device, wherein the notification includes content viewable by a user of the electronic device, wherein the content is scrollable. The notification may be a notification received from a Geo-location based content system (GLC system). The method also includes a step for displaying the received notification. The method also includes a step for receiving, from the user, a scroll event associated with the displayed notification. The method also includes a step for scrolling, in response to the received scroll event, content in the notification, wherein the scrolling provides additional content viewable to the user. The method also includes a step for unlocking, in response to the scrolling, one or more capabilities of the electronic device, wherein unlocking at least partially the capabilities of the electronic device includes displaying one or more user actionable items for the application, wherein unlocking at least partially the capabilities of the electronic device includes displaying one or more user actionable items for the application. Other aspects can include corresponding systems, apparatus and computer program products.
In some aspects, the method may also include a step for receiving a second scroll event and unlocking the electronic device in its entirety based on the receiving of the second scroll event. In some aspects, a user password is received prior to unlocking the phone in its entirety. Other aspects can include corresponding systems, apparatus and computer program products.
It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description, wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized, the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects, all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.
DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
Features of the subject technology are set forth in the appended claims. However, for purpose of explanation, several aspects of the disclosed subject matter are set forth in the following figures.
FIG. 1 is an example of a user interface for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system.
FIG. 2 is another example of a user interface for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system.
FIGS. 3A and 3B are example user interfaces for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system.
FIGS. 4A and 4B are example user interfaces for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system.
FIG. 5 illustrates an example of a network environment which can provide for location-based content publishing.
FIG. 6 illustrates an example of the server and mobile device of FIG. 5.
FIG. 7 is a flowchart of an example process for a location-based content publishing system.
FIG. 8 is a flowchart of another example process for a location-based content publishing system.
FIG. 9 is a flowchart of another example process for a location-based content publishing system.
FIGS. 10A-C are example user interfaces for scrollable notifications for mobile devices.
FIG. 11 is a flowchart of an example process for scrollable notifications for electronic devices.
FIG. 12 is a flowchart of an example process for scrollable notifications for unlocking electronic devices.
FIG. 13 conceptually illustrates an example electronic system with which some implementations of the subject technology are implemented.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However, the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, some structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.
Typically, content supplied to users is based on a user-initiated request, and requires a preexisting knowledge by the user of what kind of information the user is seeking, e.g., by using keywords for searches, users specify the type of content that is of interest to them. In the case of alerts, users specify the type of information of interest to them in the configuration (e.g., emails or text messages, etc.)
The subject disclosure provides systems and techniques for discovering information or content items based on a mobile user's location. In various aspects, a user's geographic location is used to determine what content to publish to the user, referred to herein as a Geo-location based content system (GLC system).
For example, a GLC system may act as a “local guide” for a mobile handset user. The user may travel around in a city neighborhood and interesting facts about nearby items may be published to the user's phone. Such facts may include information about a historic building that the user is approaching, information about various nearby art pieces, information about interesting points to visit nearby, information about nearby restaurant deals, or any other content related to the user's geographic location.
As another example, a handset user may be travelling to a vacation destination. While walking or otherwise moving (e.g., via car, train, horse buggy, etc.) around the vacation spot, a GLC system may publish content about items near the user's geographic location, at the vacation spot. The published content may include historic or other interesting facts about certain points of interest (e.g., a historic building, an outdoor sculpture, a city block where an interesting event took place, etc.), or interesting places to visit that are nearby. Published content may include practical information as well, such as hotel and restaurant information.
In various aspects, the subject disclosure provides for accessing information stored about users (e.g., user location data, user web usage history, user endorsements, etc.). In such cases, a user may opt-out of having the system (e.g., a server or a data repository) store the user information or the user may need to provide affirmative permission to have the system store or access the user information as discussed for the various aspects. Information about users is not collected, stored, or used unless the user has provided permission, after being informed as to how the information is collected, stored, and used. User provided permission may be withdrawn at a later point in time. Once a user's permission is obtained, the data is used in a way that protects user privacy (e.g., location data collected is stored and handled in a way that maintains user privacy).
In various aspects, a GLC system is provided that allows publishers to provide content to be later delivered to users based on the user's geographic location. A content publisher may be any entity that provides information for a user's consumption. In some aspects, content publishers provide content associated with a location (e.g., content associated with a latitude and longitude). Content publishers may include entities such as businesses, historic societies, art organizations, educational institutions, individuals, friends, search engines, information databases, etc. For example, content publishers may include entities such as restaurant reviewers, publishers that maintain art facts or historical facts or interesting items, events content publishers, travel attractions publishers, local deals publishers, news publishers, etc.
A content publisher may provide multiple content items over periods of time. The various content published by a particular publisher is referred to herein as a publisher feed. As such, multiple publishers provide multiple publisher feeds of a plurality of content items from the respective publisher.
In various aspects, content provided by publishers to a GLC system includes the content and a location associated with the content. In some aspects, content provided by a publisher includes location information, such as a latitude and longitude coordinate associated with the content. Content location information is then used to publish the content to users determined to be in proximity of the location associated with the content.
In some aspects, a content publisher provides location information associated with content. For example, a publisher may provide various images and associated text as content, and provide latitude and longitude coordinates associated with that content. As another example, a publisher may provide more general location information associated with a content item, such as the city, neighborhood in the city, or address of the content item.
In various aspects, a location associated with content items provided to a GLC system is determined or calculated by the GLC system. For example, based on information about the content (such as a historic landmark identified by name or some other attribute, e.g., “Golden Gate Bridge”) location information may be determined (e.g., a set of latitude/longitude coordinates for the bridge or a more general location such as the city of “San Francisco”) by the GLC system to associate with the content item.
In various aspects, content provided by publishers, e.g., as publisher feeds, may include content validity information. In some aspects, content validity information includes an expiration date or valid timeframe provided with the content. The expiration date or time frame may then be used to expire content after such time has elapsed or expiration date has been reached. For example, a ticket offering for a concert at a certain venue may have an expiration date set as the date of the concert. After the date of the concert, the content would not be published to subscribers as it may not be relevant to the subscribers after it has expired.
Content provided by publishers may be text, audio, video, or any other digital content that may be delivered on a computing device. Content may be of artistic value or of commercial value. For example, information about historic sites may be made available or information about restaurants, hotels, and events may be published.
Content may be provided by publishers in various formats. A GLC system may accept proprietary or standards-based formats (e.g., RSS feed, XML or other markup language based formats provided to publishers) in which to provide content to the GLC system. As an example of a proprietary format, the GLC system may support a particular comma-separated file format provided by a particular publisher. As an example of a standards-based format, an XML file structure may be provided by the GLC system to be used by publishers for providing content files or streams.
In various aspects, a GLC system is provided that allows publishers to provide content to be later delivered to users based on the user's geographic location. In some aspects, a GLC system is provided that accesses content items for various publishers to be later delivered to users based on the user's geographic location. For example, a GLC system may receive content items (e.g., that is then stored in a GLC system data repository) for later publication to mobile devices, or may access one or more third party data repositories that maintain content items from one or more publishers, or the GLC system may use some combination of the two. In either way, content items for a plurality of publishers that are accessible to the GLC system (e.g., either via a GLC data repository, third party data repositories, or some combination of the two) are accessed for selection and later publication to mobile devices.
In various aspects, content is published to a mobile user upon a determination that the mobile user is within a certain proximity of the content's associated location. In some aspects, content determined to be associated with a location within a certain sized polygon from a user's current location is published to the user's mobile device. In certain aspects, content associated with a location that a user will reach at a future point (e.g., based on the user's calculated travel path) is published in anticipation of the user arriving at the point at a certain time in the future. Any algorithms may be used to determine what content is considered to be in proximity of a user's current or anticipated location to be then selected for publication to the user's device.
In various aspects, content found to be within a certain proximity of a user is published in an order based on a ranking of the content items. This will be described in greater detail below. In some aspects, a content item provided to a user is not published to the user a second time. For example, a user walking by a sculpture may be presented with information about the sculpture but the next time the user walks by the sculpture, the notification about the sculpture is not re-published to the user.
In various aspects, a list of content previously delivered to a user is maintained. In certain aspects, each content item is identified by a unique content identifier and each user is identified by a unique user identifier, and a corresponding list of content provided to a user is maintained utilizing the unique identifiers for content items and users. Using the list of content delivered to users, in some aspects, a GLC system may never show the same content twice to the same user.
In some aspects, certain points of interest may have data associated with them that changes dynamically. For example, concert events taking place at an amphitheatre or other concert venues change with time. In such cases, a GLC system may generate a new content identifier for each event, thereby notifying users multiple times about the same venue, however associated with a different event or actual content item.
In some aspects, content may be published to a user every time a user is determined to be within a certain proximity of the content. User or system configurations may guide whether or not content should be re-published to a user's device, how often content should be re-published, and after what time period has elapsed should the content be re-published.
In various aspects, a mobile user subscribes to one or more publishers' feeds to receive published content. The subscribed feeds' content is published to a mobile user's device when the mobile user is determined to be in a certain proximity of the content location (e.g., within a certain proximity of the latitude and longitude associated with the content). Subscribed content found to be within the user's proximity may be selected for publishing to the user's device upon determination that the content is valid (e.g., content date or timeframe has not expired). Users may subscribe to feeds and may unsubscribe to feeds.
In some aspects, a set of publisher feeds may be subscribed to on behalf of a user by the GLC system. In some aspects, users of the GLC system are subscribed to most feeds available to the GLC system as a default. The user can select to unsubscribe to system subscribed feeds. System subscribed feeds may be based on determining user interest categories (e.g., based on past web usage patterns, networking groups of the user, etc.). For example, if a user is determined to have interest in art, then art feeds may be subscribed to on the user's behalf, or recommendations to those feeds may be made to the user. System subscribed feeds may be based on determining a user's location (e.g., based on the address of a user) or based on a destination that a user is going to visit. For example, if a user lives in New York city, feeds about interesting content in New York may be system subscribed for the user or recommendations may be made to the user to subscribe to such feeds.
A GLC system may make recommendations of publisher feeds that a user may be interested in subscribing to. Recommendations may be based on web usage history of the mobile user or by analyzing other authorized and accessible information about the user. Recommendations may be based on a user's current or historical location information (e.g., where a user spends most of her time, where does she live, work etc.), or places that a user has shown interest in (e.g., a user's past search for a place in a maps application).
Recommendations may also be based on a user's likes/dislikes as indicated by the user's feedback as provided in a GLC system (e.g., user endorsements or negative endorsements as discussed in reference to FIG. 1), or aggregate feedback from all or multiple users of the GLC system. Users may indicate likes/dislikes by providing a thumbs up/down to a piece of content. In some aspects, a user's subscription to a certain feed provides an indication that she is interested in the subscribed feed, and other feeds with similar content may be of interest to the user and therefore recommended. Data from a GLC system, as well as other products (e.g., search engines, social platforms, map applications, etc.) may be used to build a personalized model of interests for each user. Recommendations may be based on the likes/dislikes of a user's networking group (e.g., friends, family, professional group, hobby group, etc.) on social networking platforms.
In some aspects, recommendations for particular feeds are made as a user is in the proximity of a particular content item provided by a publisher. For example, as a user walks in a certain neighborhood or city, a notification about a feed that has content items related to that neighborhood or city may be provided to the mobile device of the user for user subscription to that feed. Recommendations may be sent to users as notifications on their respective mobile device or may be emailed to the user's email address.
In various aspects, selected content (e.g., based on proximity of a mobile user's location and content location information) is published to the user's mobile device as notifications. For example, a pop-up window containing content, publisher information and an action item may be presented to the user, as will be described in greater detail with reference to FIG. 1. The notification may be provided on a locked or un-locked user screen.
A GLC system may take into account several factors before publishing or displaying content items as notifications. For example, notifications may be disabled after a certain time at night. In some aspects, if a user has a meeting scheduled (e.g., determined by authorized access to a user's calendar application), notifications may be delayed or paused during the meeting time interval.
In some aspects, statistics may be maintained by a GLC system about content items provided by publishers. Such statistics may later be provided to publishers upon authorized request. For example, the number of times a content item was published may be maintained. As another example, numbers on negative/positive endorsements received about the content items published may be maintained. Statistics may be maintained on the demographics of users who provided negative endorsements and users who provided positive endorsements about published content items. The numbers then may be communicated to publishers upon request.
A GLC system has the advantage of allowing mobile users to discover interesting information. The GLC system allows discovery of information by providing content that is not based on an explicit user request, but rather that is based on the geographic location of a user and associated content location. The GLC system may have an additional advantage of providing content and information when a user is closer to a desired content item. Another advantage of the GLC system is that users do not necessarily need to go to multiple websites to get content. Instead, they can subscribe to content published by various publishers and get the integrated content in one platform, the GLC platform.
In some aspects, fees may be associated with publishers providing content to the GLC system. In some aspects, fees may be associated with subscribers subscribing to certain feeds. For example, a fee may be associated with a feed that provides deals, offers, coupons, etc. as part of the content. In other cases, content feeds may require a subscription fee for subscribing users (e.g., a paid premium content feed). In certain aspects, content feeds may be free, without any associated fee.
The subject disclosure also relates to a notification system (e.g., a notification may arise from the GLC system described above or any other notification system that may render a notification on an electronic device). For example, a notification may be a pop-up user interface (e.g., a window or other graphical element) that displays some piece of information. As used herein, a “card” refers to a graphical user interface used to display a notification, and an “alert” refers to a notification that alerts users of certain events. For notification cards that are displayed on top of a system's lock screen, the card itself may need to protect from accidental user input with unwanted consequences. For example, a mobile device's system buttons (e.g. HOME, back, MENU) may need to be blocked and most touch screen input that may lead to unwanted actions may need to be blocked as well.
In some systems when a user receives a notification, displaying some piece of information (e.g., a new call, text message, or email has arrived) on an electronic device that is locked, the user is able to see the content provided in the visible space on the displayed card. However, in order to get more information about the item from which the alert or notification arose, the user may need to unlock the device's screen (e.g., by various unlocking mechanisms, some of which require entering a password) before getting access to additional information or device applications or capabilities. As such, when a notification is rendered for a content item that is larger than the space available on the notification screen or user interface, a user may need to unlock the screen before being able to retrieve more information about the notification item.
For example, a notification may appear on a user's locked mobile phone touch screen. The notification may alert the user about an incoming email message. The notification may contain some basic information about the email, e.g., sender of the email, subject line, and a portion of the actual content of the email message. The user may view that information on the notification and determine if it is important or interesting to read the rest of the message. If the user is interested in viewing the rest of the email content, the user may be required to unlock the phone screen, switch to the respective email application, and open the email item for which the user received the notification. After opening the email item, the user is able to browse the remaining contents of the email item for which she was alerted.
The unlocking of a computing device may require an action on a dedicated unlock user interface (UI) element. For example, a system may have a lock slider UI element to use for unlocking a phone. In some cases, a user may touch the slider and move the slider from either left to right or from right to left to unlock the phone (or up to down or down to up). So, a dedicated, visual, UI element may be required for unlocking a mobile or other computing device. Additionally, a password may need to be entered in devices that are further secured by a password before unlocking the phone. Restrictions on requiring a phone to be unlocked, sometimes additionally requiring the entering of a password, before unlocking a device may limit the capabilities of notifications displayed on a locked screen. For example, the amount of content displayed in a notification rendered on a locked screen may be limited to the available space on the card and the notification may not allow for a use to take additional actions for the application from which the notification arose.
The subject disclosure provides systems and techniques for unlocking at least a subset of an application's capabilities without requiring unlocking the electronic device in its entirety through the various available mechanisms for unlocking all of the electronic device's capabilities (e.g., a slider element to unlock a mobile phone).
In various aspects, a notification rendered on a locked device is scrollable, allowing the available content in a notification to be greater than the visible area on the notification user interface. In various aspects, scrolling the content within a notification rendered on a locked device, unlocks at least a portion of the capabilities of the application from which the notification arose. For example, a user may scroll a card's contents by a certain amount, to unlock the notification application's menu items or capabilities. In some aspects, a certain speed, amount and direction of scrolling of content dictates whether or not unlocking of application capabilities takes place or not. As such, in some aspects, scrolling content in a notification takes place while a mobile device is locked, and when sufficient scrolling has taken place, it may cause partial or full unlocking of the capabilities or applications' functionality of the mobile device.
For example, a card containing information about a historical site of interest to the user may be displayed when a user approaches the historical site. The rendered card may have more images, textual information, or other data than the size of the notification card. A user may then be able to scroll the content, e.g., in an upwards direction to reveal additional content. Scrolling further, e.g., to the end of the content may unlock further capabilities of the application from which the notification about the historical site arose. For example, once a card is unlocked additional actions may become available as part of a tool bar that appears at the bottom of the card. The user may then navigate away from the card or notification screen, for example by pressing one of the device's system buttons such as HOME or BACK buttons. The system lock screen may then appear and the user may need to unlock the device before having access to the full suite of capabilities of the device.
Content displayed in a card or notification may be scrollable in any direction (e.g., up, down, right, or left). Sufficient scrolling in either direction (e.g., up, down, right, or left) may unlock at least a portion of the capabilities (e.g., certain actionable menu items may become visible for a user to act upon) of the application from which the notification arose. In some aspects, scrolling content unlocks at least partial capabilities of an application from which the notification arises, and a traditional mechanism (e.g., a slider UI element) for unlocking the entire device continues to be required for unlocking the entire device.
In various aspects, scrolling content in a notification displayed on a locked device may unlock the entire device. For example, scrolling content on a notification may unlock the entire phone, thereby bypassing the need to unlock a phone as is required by current mechanisms, such as sliding a slider element right to left or left to right to unlock the phone. However, where a device requires a password, this aspect continues to require entering of the password before unlocking the device.
A visual indication may be presented to indicate that additional scrollable content is available for a card. In some aspects, a UI element, e.g., a flashing arrow, indicating that the content can be scrolled in a certain direction to reveal additional content is provided. For example, a flashing arrow, pointing upwards may be presented on a bottom portion of a notification containing additional viewable content. The example flashing arrow may provide an indication to the user that scrolling the content upwards will reveal additional content about the notification item. An indicator that clues a user to additional content may help encourage the user to scroll to receive the additional content.
Using a scrolling action for unlocking either partial or full capabilities of a computing device has the advantage that such scrolling is unlikely of an accidental nature. Furthermore, scrolling is a natural action a user may need to take to read or view the full contents of a notification presented to the user. Another advantage of the subject technology is that a screen is likely protected from accidental touch input, and may not require a traditional unlock slider as found on most touch screen based phones today for unlocking some of the capabilities of an application from which the notification arises. The subject technology also has the advantage of simplifying the user interface since it precludes the need for implementing an additional lock slider to expose the actionable items for a notification, where applicable or desired, in addition to a main device lock slider that unlocks the entire device.
FIG. 1 depicts an example of a user interface for a mobile device for a location based content publishing system. The example user interface of FIG. 1 is one example of a notification displayed on a locked or unlocked user screen upon content published to a user's mobile device. FIG. 1 depicts a user interface providing a publisher 100 and content title 102. The publisher 100 may provide the name, logo, and other information about the content provider. Content title 102 may provide a header type information about the content, such as text and images, about the content. Publishers may be able to provide customized background and look and feel for the portions of FIG. 1 that contain publisher information.
FIG. 1 also depicts an indication of a location 104 associated with the published content (e.g., shown as a circle), an indication of the user's location 106 (e.g., shown as a pinhead), and distance information 108, providing distance information between points 104 and 106. In some aspects, the location 104 and the user's location 106 are displayed on an interactive map. A user may be enabled to click on the location 104 or location 106 or other points on the map to zoom in, zoom out or move around the map application.
FIG. 1 contains a content section 110. Content section 110 provides details about the content containing items such as images, text, audio, or video about the published content item. Content section 110 may also contain an arrow icon 112, pointing to either the left, right or both, indicating that a next content item may be retrieved by pressing the arrow icon 112.
FIG. 1 depicts a publishing content toolbar 114. Toolbar 114 contains user endorsement icon 116, indicating that the user likes or otherwise endorses the published content item displayed in FIG. 1. Toolbar 114 also contains an icon 118, indicating a user disapproval/dislike of the published content item displayed. Icon 120 of toolbar 114 provides a mechanism by which the published content can be shared with other users (e.g., provided to a social networking platform for sharing with friends of the mobile user).
Icon 122 of toolbar 114 allows the user to select different modes for receiving geo-location based content, which will be described in greater detail with reference to FIG. 4A. In some aspects, a user event received by selecting icon 122 may lead to changing the user's publishing content mode to an “explore” mode, indicating a user desire to receive more content to explore the surroundings.
Icon 124 of toolbar 114 provides some information about the publisher. Activating icon 124 may lead to receiving a pop-up (or other notification) that provides more information about the publisher, which will be described in greater detail with reference to FIG. 4B.
FIG. 2 depicts another example of a user interface for a mobile device for a location based content publishing system. The example user interface of FIG. 2 provides another example of a user interface containing published content on a user's mobile device. FIG. 2 shows an example where a user walking by a building 216, containing a historic marker 218, that has details or information depicted in item 220, causes a notification to show up on a user's mobile device.
The notification has a publisher “HMDB” 200 and content title “Site of Ship Niantic” 202. Pin icon 204 provides an indication of the user's location and distance 206 provides information about the distance of the user and the historic marker 218. Content section 208 provides more information about the content item such as an image and information about the historic marker provided as text. Content section 208 may contain provide other types of data such as audio and video. Arrow icons 210 and 212 allow the user to go the previous or the next content item found to be near the user's location 204. Toolbar 214 has the items discussed for toolbar 114 for FIG. 1.
FIGS. 3A and 3B depict example user interfaces for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system. FIG. 3A provides a user interface by which users of a GLC system may select or subscribe to publisher feeds of interest to the users. Selecting a category from the provided category list of items 302-314 leads to a user interface depicted in FIG. 3B to be displayed on the user's mobile device. A user may then use interface provided in FIG. 3B to select publisher feeds for the selected category from FIG. 3A.
Item 300 provides an indication to the user that a user may select topic areas of interest from the below list, containing items 302-314. Items 302-314 provide various examples of categories that a user may select: “Historic Places and Events 302”, “Lifestyle” 304, “Movies & TV” 306, “Offers and Deals” 308, “Place Recommendations” 310, “Points of interest” 312, and “Public Art” 314. In some aspects, as a user makes a category selection from items 302-314, a user interface as depicted in FIG. 3B is displayed for the use to select publisher feeds for the selected category.
FIG. 3B provides an example user interface containing a list of publisher feeds for a selected category (e.g., from FIG. 3A). User interface of FIG. 3B provides a category title 316, providing an indication to the user of the selected category from FIG. 3A. Items 318-324 provide various publishers available for the selected category 316 for user selection to subscribe to content from. The publishers provided in the example category 316 of “Historic Places and Events” are: “Publisher” 318, “History” 320, “Archeological Institute” 322, “Historic Points” 324. Each respective publisher is depicted with an icon, a title, and a brief synopsis about the content it provides. In the example user interface of FIG. 3B, a user is able to select one or more of the provided feeds 318-324, and a checkmark indicated the selected or subscribed feeds.
FIGS. 4A and 4B depict example user interfaces for a mobile device for a geographic location based content publishing system. FIG. 4A provides a user interface by which a user may select the mode by which to receive published content. Item 402 provides an indication to the user that a mode for publication may be selected using the interface provided in FIG. 4A. A user may select, e.g., an “Explore” mode 404, a “Feeling Lucky” mode 406, an “Off” mode 408, and a “Snooze” mode 410.
A caption associated with each mode respectively further explains the mode choice. “Explore” mode 404 is shown to be associated with a user choice to receive more frequent content discoveries as indicated by the caption next to it stating “When exploring a new area and in the mood for discoveries.” This indicates the a GLC system may look for location-based content more frequently or may provide more content items (e.g., by searching for a larger area of content items near a user's current or anticipated position).
The “Feeling Lucky” mode 406 provides a caption of a medium level desire to explore a user's surroundings, stating “Occasionally learn interesting stuff about places you go to.” The “Off” mode 408 is used when a user desires the GLC system to be turned off, meaning no location-based notifications will be provided to the user. And the “Snooze” mode 410 provides a mode by which a user may temporarily disable GLC system based notifications.
FIG. 4B provides an example user interface by which a user may control the amount of content desired from a particular publisher feed. FIG. 4B displays item 412 indicating the publisher name for which the control user interface is provided. Item 414 provides more information about the publisher, such as an icon, a title, and a brief synopsis of the type of content provided by publisher 412. Sliding bar 416 allows a user to control the amount of content desired from publisher 412. Sliding bar 416 depicts three states of “Show less”, “Show more”, or a middle state. Also, action item 418 allows a user to unsubscribe to feed previously subscribed to.
The example user interface provided in FIG. 4B may be a launched as a result of a user event received from menu item 420 of the toolbar as discussed in more details for FIG. 1. A user action received from item 420 may lead to the display of the user interface depicted in FIG. 4B by which a user may control the amount of content desired for the particular publisher. FIG. 3B's user interface may be launched from other screens as well, for example, a user selection of a particular publisher feed for subscription (as discussed for FIG. 3B) may result in the interface of FIG. 4B to be displayed. Irrespective of what launches the user interface of FIG. 4B, it provides an example of how a user may control content from particular publisher feeds.
FIG. 5 illustrates an example of a network environment which can provide for location-based content publishing. As shown, the network environment 500 includes a data repository 510, a server 520, a mobile device 530 and a computing device 540. Data repository 510, although shown as a database, may be any other type of data repository (e.g., a relational database, an object-oriented database, a web application server, a file, or any other data storage) that can maintain and provide data about a GLC system. The data repository 510, the server 520, the mobile device 530, and the computing device 540 may be configured to communicate with one another via a network 550. The network 550 may include the Internet, an intranet, a local area network, a wide area network, a wired network, a wireless network, a cellular network, a WiFi network, or a virtual private network (VPN).
The data repository 510 may store data (e.g., content information such as actual content data, associated location information, associated expiration date or time frame information, user subscription information, user mode selection, etc.) related to a GLC system. Data repository 510 may also maintain multiple data indexes as appropriate for content publishing, e.g., content location index, content expiration index, user subscription index.
The server 520 may include a module for receiving location-based content and a module for selecting and publishing location-based content. The server 520 may be implemented as a single machine with a single processor, a multi-processor machine, or multiple machines with multiple processors. One example of the server 520 is described in more detail in conjunction with FIG. 6 below.
The mobile device 530 may be a mobile phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a tablet computer, a netbook, a laptop computer, or any other type of mobile computing device. The mobile device 530 may be portable and may often times be carried by a user, for example, in a pocket, a purse, a backpack, or a briefcase. The mobile device 530 may also include a mobile browser or a mobile application configured to subscribe to publisher feeds and to receive notifications about content in its vicinity. The mobile device 530 may also include a mobile browser or a mobile application configured to receive scrollable notifications. While only one mobile device 530 is illustrated in FIG. 5, the subject technology may be implemented in conjunction with one or more mobile devices 530.
The computing device 540 may be a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a mobile phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a tablet computer, a netbook, a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto, a physical machine, or a virtual machine. The computing device 540 may include one or more of a keyboard, a mouse, a display, or a touch screen. The computing device 540 may also include a mobile browser or a mobile application configured to subscribe to publisher feeds and to receive notifications about content in its vicinity. The computing device 540 may also include a mobile browser or a mobile application configured to receive scrollable notifications.
While each of the data repository 510, the server 520, the mobile device 530, and the computing device 540 are illustrated in FIG. 5 as separate machines, in example aspects, one or more of the data repository 510, the server 520, the mobile device 530, and the computing device 540 may be implemented as a single machine. For example, the functions of the data repository 510 and the server 520 may be implemented within a single machine.
FIG. 6 illustrates an example of the server and mobile device of FIG. 5. As shown, the mobile device 530 is connected to server 520. Mobile device 530 may send requests for location-based content to server 520 and receive location-based content from server 520 via its connectivity to server 520. Server 520 may communicate with data repository 510 to store content feeds received from publishers, user subscriptions and other preferences, to retrieve content items based on content location information, etc. via its connectivity to data repository 510.
As shown, the server 520 includes a processor 602, a network interface 604, and a memory 606. The mobile device 530 includes a processor 632, a network interface 634, and a memory 636. The processors 602 and 632 are configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer-readable medium, for example, the memory 606 or the memory 636 respectively. The processor 602 or 632 may be a central processing unit (CPU). While only one processor 602 and 632 are illustrated, the server 520 or the mobile device 530 may include multiple processors. Furthermore, while the server 520 is illustrated as a single machine, the server 520 may include multiple machines, e.g., within a server farm. Also, mobile device 530 is depicted as a plurality of mobile devices that communicate with server 520 to receive location-based content from server 520.
The network interface 504 and 534 are configured to allow the server 520 and mobile device 530 and data repository 510 to transmit and receive data in a network, e.g., network 550 of FIG. 5. The network interface 504 and 534 may include one or more network interface cards (NICs). The memory 506 and 536 may store data or instructions.
As illustrated, server 520's memory 506 includes a content receiving module 610, a publish content module 620, and a GLC configuration module 630. Mobile device 530's memory 636 depicts a GLC client module 650. FIG. 6 also shows a data repository 510 of FIG. 5.
Content receiving module 610 is configured to receive, from a computing device (e.g., computing device 540 or mobile device 530), a content feed containing one or more content items for publication. Content feed items may be provided by various publishers as discussed above. The provided content may include information associated with the content, such as content location information, a start or expiration date, or a periodicity or timeframe to publish content. For example, one content item may include an image about the content, some text describing the content item in more details, a latitude coordinate associated with the content, a longitude coordinate associated with the content, and an expiration date. A content feed may contain multiple content items.
Content items may be provided (by publishers) to content receiving module 610, having associated with content items a periodicity interval for the one or more of the content items. The periodicity may be provided for recurring events content. For example, a Christmas holiday event that occurs annually may have a periodicity of one year and may also have start and end dates for the event. Then as subscribed mobile users approach the proximity of the event's location, e.g., the city or area of the city hosting the event, content information about the event may be published to the user if the date is within the start and end date of the content. Such an event's date may be reset every year based on the periodicity of one year for the event. In one aspect, content receiving module 610 may check for the periodicity of the event, upon expiration or end date of the event, and upon expiration date the content receiving module 610 may update the start and end date, e.g., to the next year for the provided example.
Content receiving module 610 is configured to receive content items or publisher feeds, process the received data and store content items (e.g., in data repository 510) for use by a GLC system. For example, content receiving module may receive a comma separated file from a publisher. Each content item may be denoted by a newline character, while each comma separated item may represent various attributes of information about the content item. Content receiving module 610 may then receive the comma separated file, parse content items by each newline character to retrieve data rows of content items, and separate each row of content item by commas to retrieve attributes about each content item row. Content receiving module 610 may then store the parsed content items in a database table or any other data repository 510.
Content receiving module 610 may receive data from various publishers in various formats. One example of a comma-separated file is described above. Content receiving module 610 may receive content items in various other formats, e.g., XML based file formats, RSS feeds, etc. Content receiving module 610 may process the content items differently depending on the format of the data received. Content items or publisher feeds may be received as files periodically or through other connection-oriented or connectionless communications (e.g., RSS feeds, HTML posts, etc.). Once the content items data is processed, it may be stored in a data repository 510 for later use by a GLC system to publish content to mobile users.
Publish content module 620 may receive periodic requests to search for location-based content from an application or GLC client module 650 running on a mobile client device, e.g., a mobile device 530. The GLC client module 650 for a GLC system may be configured to communicate with publish content module 620 to initiate a request for location-based content. The GLC client module 650 may also be configured to calculate the requesting mobile device's location and provide it to publish content module 620, along with the request. In some aspects, GLC client module 650 requests for location-based content items every 3 minutes for a next notification of location-based content items.
GLC client module 650 may dynamically adjust the periodicity of requests for location-based content based on the mobile device's movement. For example, if a user is determined to be moving at a rapid pace, more frequent requests may be made (e.g., one every 30 seconds). Where the GLC client module 650 determines that the user is not moving as rapidly, e.g. a user stops to eat lunch, then requests may be throttled down, e.g., to once every 5 minutes. The GLC client module 650 may not issue another request until the user is detected to have moved a certain distance from a previously calculated location.
The GLC client module 650 may also take into account a selected mode by the user (as discussed in more details for FIG. 4A) to determine how often to request for location-based content notifications. For example, if a current mode is set to “Explore” then more frequent requests may be made then if the selected mode is “Feeling Lucky”. If the selected mode is “Snooze” then no requests may be issued until a snooze period has elapsed. Where a selected mode is set to “Off” then no requests for location-based information are issued until the mode is changed.
Publish content module 620 is configured to select content nearby a user's location upon receiving a request for location-based content items. For example, publish content module 620 may periodically (e.g., every 3 minutes) receive a request from the GLC client module 650 of a mobile user to query for location-based content. The request may include with it information about the current or anticipated location of the mobile device. In some aspects, publish content module 620 may itself calculate the current or anticipated location of a requesting mobile device. Publish content module 620 may be configured to search data repository 510 to select content records that are within a certain proximity of the provided or calculated user location.
In various aspects, publish content module 620 takes into account multiple factors for selecting content items nearby or in proximity of a user's current or anticipated location. In some aspects, a user's selected mode for a GLC system (e.g., “Explorer” mode, “Feeling lucky” mode, etc. as described in reference to FIG. 4A) is taken into account. For example, where a user has selected “Explore” mode an algorithm for selecting nearby content items may be relaxed, e.g., the algorithm may select content items further away from the user than would be otherwise selected (e.g., may select content items up to 500 meters away from a user's current or anticipated location). As another example, where a user has selected “Feeling lucky” mode, the algorithm may select content items closer to the user than in the “Explore” mode (e.g., select content items up to 50 meters away from a user's current of anticipated location). The threshold distances of 500 and 50 meters provided in the above examples may vary depending on various ranking factors. For example, where a user has indicated she wants more content from a specific feed, as described in reference to FIG. 4B, then the algorithm may increase the threshold distance for content from that particular feed.
In some aspects, where a user has selected a “Feeling Lucky” mode, the algorithm takes into account both a user's location and the uncertainty associated with the user's location, and a content item's location and the uncertainty associated with the content item's location, in determining whether or not the content item should be selected for notification to the user. In certain aspects, the algorithm considers how much area of the user's location circle is contained in the content item's location circle. As such, notifications are shown for content items that have a large enough probability that the user is close to the content items, based on the amount of overlapping of the circles. Variations on the algorithm, for selecting content items considered to be nearby a user's current or anticipated location, may exist without deviating from the scope of this disclosure.
Publish content module 620 may also be configured to determine if the selected nearby records are still valid. For example, a query for location-based content may check a start and end date associated with the selected content items to ensure the content items are still valid and not expired. The publish content module 620 may also be configured to select only those valid location-based content items that originate from publisher feeds that the requesting user has subscribed to. For example, one query may select all content items that originate from subscribed publisher feeds that are within a two mile radius of the user's provided current location, and that are still valid content items or not expired.
Publish content module 620 may provide one or more of the selected content items to the GLC client module 650 on the mobile user's device. The mobile device may be locked when it receives the selected content items. The GLC client module 650 may display information about the received content items as notifications on a locked or unlocked mobile device's screen. Examples of notification user interfaces are provided in FIGS. 1 and 2. A user may take an action on the provided user interfaces as discussed in more details for FIGS. 1 and 2.
Publish content module 620 may rank selected content items before providing them to GLC client module 650 for display as notifications on the mobile device. The ranking may be based on a location of the user (e.g., as provided in the request or as calculated by publish content module 620), a location associated with the content items, the distance between the user and location associated with the content items, a point size of the content items, a ranking if any provided in association with the content items, interests of the requesting user, etc.
In some aspects, a point size comparison between two or more content items is considered for ranking the content items. In some aspects, each content item or point is associated with a circular shape, having a radius and a center point. For example, consider a user whose location is determined to be somewhere inside the Golden Gate park in San Francisco, standing in front of a sculpture inside the park. Also, assuming that a GLC system's content items data repository contains two possible notifications, one for the park itself, and one for the sculpture. Then, the publish content module 620 may rank the sculpture higher than the park notification, because the user is likely more interested in the more specific notification at the time when she is standing in front of the sculpture. The park notification may still be provided at a later time, e.g., when the user walks through the park or is near the boundary of the park and no higher ranked notification for a content item exists.
In some aspects point size may comprise of any other shape, in addition to the circle shape described above. For example, a point size may be of the shape of another polygon or of an arbitrary shape, corresponding to an actual shape of a particular content item (e.g., the actual boundaries of the Golden Gate park may be provided as the shape for the point size). The concept of selecting/ranking content items based on point size as discussed above remains similar but takes into account the various shapes that a point size may correspond to.
Point size for a content item may be provided as information with the content feed. For example, publishers may provide along with the content item and location information, a radius for the content item. The radius provides a circular point size to use as the point size of the content item. In other aspects, data for shaped other than a circle may be provided as the point size. For example, date for the actual shape of the Golden Gate Park may be provided for the point size information and may be used as discussed above for ranking content items.
Publish content module 620 may take into account interests of the requesting user of the mobile device when ranking selected content items. For example, publish content items may have information about a user's interests based on past feed items for which the user or other users of the GLC system provided a positive/negative endorsement for the content item (e.g., as described in FIG. 1, item 116). Using past endorsements, negative or positive, publish content module 620 may rank items in a similar category as the positive endorsements higher than items for which negative endorsements were received in the past.
In some aspects, publish content module 620 ranks content items upon every request received for location-based content items, e.g., every 3 minutes or at some other periodic time interval that requests are received. In some aspects, content items may be ranked upon receiving of the content items, e.g., from the content publisher. In various aspects, content items may be ranked by a batch process that runs at certain time intervals or upon triggering of an event such as receiving a publisher's feed (e.g., as opposed to with every request for location-based content items or in addition to every request for location-based content items). For example, content items may be ranked based on attributes of the content items, e.g., endorsements about the content item received by various users, the publisher feed from which the content item is received, etc. As such, content items may be ranked with every request, in some batch process prior to the request, or in some combination thereof (e.g., rank items in a batch and further rank content items upon receiving a request for location-based content items).
Publish content module 620 may look at systems other than the GLC system described here to ascertain what items fit into the requesting user's interest area. For example, publish content module 620 may communicate with social networking systems to determine the user's interest areas. Past web usage history, e.g., past searches done by the user, may be used to determine to rank content items based on user's interests. For example, if a user searched for “Farmer's market” in a recent query then information relating to content items about fresh produce, etc., may be ranked higher for that user. A user's group of friends or other groups on social networking platforms may also be used to ascertain user interests. For example, if a user has a gaming circle of friends then content items relating to the gaming industry may be ranked higher for that user.
Publish content module 620 may take into account the desired amount of content items for a particular publisher's feed (as described in more details for FIG. 4B) when selecting or ranking content items. For example, publisher feeds where a mobile device's user has specified a “Show More” level of content items (e.g., as described for FIG. 4B) may be ranked more highly then publisher feeds where the amount of desired content items is set to “Show less”. The top one or more ranked items may be provided by publish content module 620 to GLC client module 650 for display as a notification or otherwise on the mobile device.
Publish content module 620 may provide different forms of notification based on information about a user's movement. For example, if a user of the mobile device is determined to be driving, then publish content module 620 may send an audio notification as opposed to the visual notification described for FIGS. 1 and 2.
The GLC client module 650 may maintain a set of content items received in a local cache or local data repository. The GLC client module 650 may maintain a history of content items provided to it by publish content module 620. The history may be maintained for a certain period of time and may be deleted based on system needs or system or user configuration parameters. In some aspects, a history of location-based content items may be accessible by a mobile device's user once the device is unlocked.
GLC configuration module 630 is configured to set up authorized publishers. For example, GLC configuration module 630 may maintain a list of valid or authorized publishers of the GLC system (e.g., stored in data repository 510). GLC configuration module 630 may maintain information about the feed format that each publisher's feed is received in. Format information may be used by content receiving module 610 to determine how to process a feed received from a particular publisher.
GLC configuration module 630 may be configured to maintain user subscriptions. For example, upon a user selection of a publisher feed (e.g., as described in FIGS. 3A and 3B), GLC client module 650 may communicate feed selections/subscriptions to GLC configuration module 630. GLC configuration module 630 may maintain and update subscription information about user selections in data repository 510. Unsubscribe events/messages may similarly be received by GLC configuration module 630 and used to update user subscription information. GLC configuration module 630 may also receive mode selection (e.g., as described in FIG. 4A) information from GLC client module 650 and maintain and update such information in, e.g., data repository 510. GLC configuration module 650 may also receive and maintain information about the desired content levels for particular publishers (e.g., as described in FIG. 4B).
FIG. 7 is a flowchart of an example process for location-based content system. Process 700 starts at step 710 upon receiving a user subscription to one or more publisher feeds. For example, a user may utilize the example user interfaces of FIGS. 3A and 3B to subscribe to available publisher feeds. A publisher feed as discussed above provides multiple content items from a particular publisher. Each content item in a publisher feed is associated with a location. In some aspects, the publisher of the feed provides location information associated with content items in the publisher feed. In some aspects, a GLC system may calculate location information associated with content items.
At step 720, a request for content items is received. The request includes information about the user's location based on a mobile device of the user. In some aspects, location of the requesting user's mobile device is calculated by a receiving server system as discussed above in more details. At step 730, content items provided by the one or more publisher feeds based on the user's location and based on the location associated with the content items are selected. Content items may be further filtered, selected, or ranked based on various criteria as discussed above in more details (e.g., expiration dates or intervals, user mode selection, amount of desired content from a particular publisher, point size of content item, user location, content location information, etc.).
At step 740, at least a portion of the selected content items are provided for display on the user's mobile device. Content items may be displayed as notifications on a locked or un-locked screen as discussed in more details for FIGS. 1 and 2.
FIG. 8 is another flowchart of an example process for location-based content system. Process 800 starts at step 810 upon sending subscription information, from a mobile device, for one or more publisher feeds, wherein a publisher feed includes multiple content items, wherein each content item is associated with a location. For example, a user of a mobile device 530 may send subscription information (as discussed in more details for FIGS. 3A and 3B) for publisher feeds of interest to the user.
At step 820, the mobile device, periodically sends, a request for content items to a server system, wherein the request includes a location of the mobile device. As discussed above, the mobile device may send requests every certain time period (e.g., every 3 minutes or every 30 seconds). The time frame for polling a server system for location content items may be throttled based on various parameters as discussed above (e.g., the movement of the mobile device, the user mode selection, etc.)
At step 830, the mobile device receives one or more content items based on the provided location of the mobile device and based on the location associated with the one or more content items. At step 840, the mobile device displays a notification, wherein the notification provides information about the received one or more content items. (See FIGS. 1 and 2 for more details on notification of content items received).
Although certain examples provided herein describe a user's information being stored in memory, the user can delete the user information from memory and/or opt out of having the user information stored in memory. In example aspects, the user can adjust appropriate privacy settings to selectively limit the types of user information stored in memory, or select the memory in which the user information is stored (e.g., locally on the user's device as opposed to remotely a server). In example aspects, the user information does not include and/or share the specific identification of the user (e.g., the user's name) unless otherwise specifically provided or directed by the user.
FIG. 9 is another flowchart of an example process for location-based content system. Process 900 starts at step 910 upon receiving a request for content items, wherein the request includes information about a location of a mobile device of a user. The request may be received periodically (e.g., every 3 minutes) and may be issued by a module on the mobile device. The frequency of the request may change based on the mode set for receiving published content (e.g., “Feeling Lucky”, “Explore”, etc.), see FIG. 4A for more details.
At step 920, a plurality of content items for a plurality of publishers, wherein each content item is associated with a location, are accessed. The content items may be accessed via a GLC system's data repository, via third party data repositories, or some combination of the two (e.g., a GLC system data repository that maintains content items for some publishers, and one or more third party data repositories that maintain content items for some other publishers). The content items are accessed in order to fulfill the request received at step 910.
At step 930, at least one content item from the accessed plurality of content items based on the information about the mobile user's location and based on the location associated with the each content item, are selected. Content items may be selected that are within a certain polygon shaped region of the mobile user's location (e.g., as determined based on the provided information about the mobile user's location at step 910). A location associated with each content item accessed is used to determine which content items are within a certain polygon shape of the mobile user's location. Content items may be selected that are within a certain proximity of the mobile user's location using other algorithms without deviating from the scope of this disclosure.
At step 940, the mobile user's device is provided with information about at least a portion of the selected content items for display at the mobile device. The information may include some text, images, or any other kind of data about the selected content item or items. The provided information may then be displayed on the mobile user's device as a notification.
FIGS. 10A-C are example user interfaces for scrollable notifications for mobile devices. FIGS. 10A-C represent a device 1000 with a notification card 1005 displayed on device 1000. FIG. 10A represents a locked state for device 1000. FIG. 10B represents the state where a user initiates scrolling of content displayed on card 1005, and FIG. 10C represents the state where the phone is in a partially unlocked state, exposing actionable items for notification 1005, while maintaining a locked state for the overall device 1000.
FIG. 10A depicts a notification 1005 that contains scrollable content. The notification 1005 is presented on a locked mobile phone 1000. The notification 1005 depicts an arrow 1010, that may flash, to indicate that the card can be scrolled in the direction that the arrow is pointing (e.g., in the upwards direction as depicted in FIG. 10A).
FIG. 10B illustrates what happens as a user starts to scroll the card 1005 displayed in FIG. 10A. FIG. 10B shows that as a user starts to scroll the card 1005 of FIG. 10A, a menu bar 1020 slowly appears towards the bottom portion of the card. One advantage of making the menu bar 1020 partially visible, as a user starts to scroll the displayed card, is to provide the user with a visible indication that actionable items are available upon further scrolling. If the user does not scroll far enough, menu bar 1020 is dropped and the device 1000 remains locked, as represented in FIG. 10A. FIG. 10C depicts the state where sufficient (e.g., sufficient amount, speed, or direction) scrolling has been performed by the user to expose the menu bar 1030 completely, anchoring it to a bottom portion of notification 1005.
FIG. 10C shows the menu bar 1030 with various actionable items for the displayed card. The displayed menu bar 1030 on the notification illustrates a partially unlocked state of the mobile device, as discussed above, exposing some of the functionality available for users of the mobile device via the actionable user items made available on the menu bar, while still keeping the device in a locked state. The user may then tap on the items exposed on menu bar 1030 to perform actions for notification 1005.
FIGS. 10A-C provide a few examples of scrollable notifications. The arrow indicator may instead be any other type of user interface element providing an indication to the user about the availability of scrollable content. The direction of the arrow or scrollable content may vary (e.g., up, down, right. left). The exposed functionality based on sufficient scrolling of notification content may vary depending on the direction that content is scrolled. For example, scrolling down may expose certain actionable items, whereas scrolling to the right may expose certain other actionable items.
FIG. 11 is a flowchart of an example process for scrollable notifications for electronic devices. Process 1100 starts at step 1110 with the receiving of a notification for display on a locked screen of an electronic device. The received notification includes content viewable by a user of the electronic device. The viewable content of the notification is scrollable by a user. For example, a notification may result based on a user configured alert, or a user authorized application that provides notifications, such as provided by a GLC system as described above, etc. The notification may include more content than the available display area of the card on which the notification information is displayed. The remaining content may be viewed by scrolling content displayed in the notification. Sufficient scrolling of the card may result in exposing certain actionable items for the user to perform actions.
In some aspects, the amount of content displayed may not require further scrolling, as the card may contain sufficient space to display all of the content. However, in order to make such a notification scrollable, in some aspects, the displayed content may be expanded in various ways to extend the content beyond the available space on the displayed card. For example, white space may be appended, or the content may be enlarged before being displayed, or additional information may be inserted or appended to the content before displaying the card. Content may be extended or otherwise enlarged to require scrolling of a notification in order to provide additional functionality (e.g., exposing a menu bar providing at least some capabilities of an application from which the notification originates), triggered by scrolling.
At step 1120, the received notification is displayed on a locked screen of the electronic device. The displayed card may include an indicator (e.g., a flashing arrow) that draws attention to a user of the electronic device about the availability of additional content to scroll (e.g., as described for FIGS. 10A-B). Any other graphical element or technique may be used to provide an indication to the user of the availability of scrollable content. Content of a notification may be scrollable in various directions (e.g., up, down, right, or left). Different indicators may be provided for the various available directions, in which scrollable content is available. Content may be scrollable in limited directions, for example, only up or down.
At step 1130, a scroll event, associated with the displayed notification, is received from a user of the electronic device. For example, as a user starts to scroll the content of the notification, the electronic device receives scroll events. At step 1140 content is scrolled based on receiving of the scroll event. The scrolling leads to the display of additional content. The amount, speed, direction of scrolling at step 1030 may be sufficient to unlock the card, for example, rendering or exposing a menu bar as described in reference to FIG. 10C. The menu bar exposed may expose different actionable items based on the direction of scrolling. For example, scrolling in the upwards direction may expose a different set of menu bar items than scrolling to the right.
In some aspects, scrolling sufficiently in one or more directions may unlock the electronic device in its entirety. For example, scrolling a notification to the right may unlock a mobile phone or device. If the particular device requires a password, than a password screen is displayed for entering the password before the device is unlocked.
FIG. 12 is a flowchart of an example process for scrollable notifications for unlocking electronic devices. The first four steps of process 1200 are the same as the first four steps described for process 1100. Process 1200 starts at step 1210 with the receiving of a notification for display on a locked screen of an electronic device. The received notification includes content viewable by a user of the electronic device. The viewable content of the notification is scrollable by a user.
At step 1220, the received notification is displayed on a locked screen of the electronic device. The displayed card may include an indicator (e.g., a flashing arrow) that draws attention to a user of the electronic device about the availability of additional content to scroll (e.g., as described for FIGS. 10A-B).
At step 1230, a scroll event, associated with the displayed notification, is received from a user of the electronic device. For example, as a user starts to scroll the content of the notification, the electronic device receives one or more scroll events.
At step 1240 content is scrolled based on receiving of the scroll event at step 1230. The scrolling leads to the display of additional content. The last step, step 1250, unlocks at least partially capabilities of the electronic device, wherein unlocking at least partially the capabilities of the electronic device includes displaying one or more user actionable items for the application.
FIG. 13 conceptually illustrates an electronic system 1300 with which some implementations of the subject technology are implemented. For example, one or more of the data repository 510, the server 520, mobile device 530 or the client computing device 540 of FIG. 5 may be implemented using the arrangement of the electronic system 1300. The electronic system 1300 can be a computer (e.g., a mobile phone, PDA, other mobile devices, laptop), or any other sort of electronic device. Such an electronic system includes various types of computer readable media and interfaces for various other types of computer readable media. Electronic system 1300 includes a bus 1305, processing unit(s) 1310, a system memory 1315, a read-only memory 1320, a permanent storage device 1325, an input device interface 1330, an output device interface 1335, and a network interface 1340.
The bus 1305 collectively represents all system, peripheral, and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system 1300. For instance, the bus 1305 communicatively connects the processing unit(s) 1310 with the read-only memory 1320, the system memory 1315, and the permanent storage device 1325.
From these various memory units, the processing unit(s) 1310 retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit(s) can be a single processor or a multi-core processor in different implementations.
The read-only-memory (ROM) 1320 stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit(s) 1310 and other modules of the electronic system. The permanent storage device 1325, on the other hand, is a read-and-write memory device. This device is a non-volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the electronic system 1300 is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass-storage device (for example a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive) as the permanent storage device 1325.
Other implementations use a removable storage device (for example a floppy disk, flash drive, and its corresponding disk drive) as the permanent storage device 1325. Like the permanent storage device 1325, the system memory 1315 is a read-and-write memory device. However, unlike storage device 1325, the system memory 1315 is a volatile read-and-write memory, such a random access memory. The system memory 1315 stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations, the processes of the subject technology are stored in the system memory 1315, the permanent storage device 1325, or the read-only memory 1320. For example, the various memory units include instructions for a GLC system or scrollable notifications in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units, the processing unit(s) 1310 retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.
The bus 1305 also connects to the input and output device interfaces 1330 and 1335. The input device interface 1330 enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface 1330 include, for example, alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices (also called “cursor control devices”). Output device interfaces 1335 enables, for example, the display of images generated by the electronic system 1300. Output devices used with output device interface 1335 include, for example, printers and display devices, for example cathode ray tubes (CRT) or liquid crystal displays (LCD). Some implementations include devices for example a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.
Finally, as shown in FIG. 13, bus 1305 also couples electronic system 1300 to a network (not shown) through a network interface 1340. In this manner, the electronic system 1300 can be a part of a network of computers (for example a local area network (“LAN”), a wide area network (“WAN”), or an Intranet, or a network of networks, for example the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system 1300 can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.
The above-described features and applications can be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium (also referred to as computer readable medium). When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit(s) (e.g., one or more processors, cores of processors, or other processing units), they cause the processing unit(s) to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include, but are not limited to, CD-ROMs, flash drives, RAM chips, hard drives, EPROMs, etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.
In this specification, the term “software” is meant to include firmware residing in read-only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage or flash storage, for example, a solid-state drive, which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also, in some implementations, multiple software technologies can be implemented as sub-parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software technologies. In some implementations, multiple software technologies can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally, any combination of separate programs that together implement a software technology described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations, the software programs, when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems, define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.
A computer program (also known as a program, software, software application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.
These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, in computer software, firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.
Some implementations include electronic components, for example microprocessors, storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine-readable or computer-readable medium (alternatively referred to as computer-readable storage media, machine-readable media, or machine-readable storage media). Some examples of such computer-readable media include RAM, ROM, read-only compact discs (CD-ROM), recordable compact discs (CD-R), rewritable compact discs (CD-RW), read-only digital versatile discs (e.g., DVD-ROM, dual-layer DVD-ROM), a variety of recordable/rewritable DVDs (e.g., DVD-RAM, DVD-RW, DVD+RW, etc.), flash memory (e.g., SD cards, mini-SD cards, micro-SD cards, etc.), magnetic or solid state hard drives, read-only and recordable Blu-Ray® discs, ultra density optical discs, any other optical or magnetic media, and floppy disks. The computer-readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code, for example is produced by a compiler, and files including higher-level code that are executed by a computer, an electronic component, or a microprocessor using an interpreter.
While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi-core processors that execute software, some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits, for example application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). In some implementations, such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.
As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms “computer”, “server”, “processor”, and “memory” all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification, the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms “computer readable medium” and “computer readable media” are entirely restricted to tangible, physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals, wired download signals, and any other ephemeral signals.
To provide for interaction with a user, implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device, e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device, e.g., a mouse or a trackball, by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user; for example, by sending web pages to a web browser on a user's client device in response to requests received from the web browser.
The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component, e.g., as a data server, or that includes a middleware component, e.g., an application server, or that includes a front end component, e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification, or any combination of one or more such back end, middleware, or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication, e.g., a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network (“LAN”) and a wide area network (“WAN”), an inter-network (e.g., the Internet), and peer-to-peer networks (e.g., ad hoc peer-to-peer networks).
The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and may interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other. In some aspects of the disclosed subject matter, a server transmits data (e.g., an HTML page) to a client device (e.g., for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device). Data generated at the client device (e.g., a result of the user interaction) can be received from the client device at the server.
The detailed description set forth is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However, the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.
It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences, it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged, or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may not be required and may not be executed. Some of the steps may be performed in an order different than illustrated. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example, in certain circumstances, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components illustrated above should not be understood as requiring such separation, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.
Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus, the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein, but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims, where reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean “one and only one” unless specifically so stated, but rather “one or more.” Unless specifically stated otherwise, the term “some” refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine (e.g., his) include the feminine and neuter gender (e.g., her and its) and vice versa. Headings and subheadings, if any, are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.
A phrase, for example, an “aspect” does not imply that the aspect is essential to the subject technology or that the aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations, or one or more configurations. A phrase, for example, an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase, for example, a “configuration” does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations, or one or more configurations. A phrase, for example, a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.