CN105683716A - Contextual traffic or transit alerts - Google Patents
Contextual traffic or transit alerts Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105683716A CN105683716A CN201380033086.1A CN201380033086A CN105683716A CN 105683716 A CN105683716 A CN 105683716A CN 201380033086 A CN201380033086 A CN 201380033086A CN 105683716 A CN105683716 A CN 105683716A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- user
- information
- time
- route
- traffic
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G01—MEASURING; TESTING
- G01C—MEASURING DISTANCES, LEVELS OR BEARINGS; SURVEYING; NAVIGATION; GYROSCOPIC INSTRUMENTS; PHOTOGRAMMETRY OR VIDEOGRAMMETRY
- G01C21/00—Navigation; Navigational instruments not provided for in groups G01C1/00 - G01C19/00
- G01C21/26—Navigation; Navigational instruments not provided for in groups G01C1/00 - G01C19/00 specially adapted for navigation in a road network
- G01C21/34—Route searching; Route guidance
- G01C21/36—Input/output arrangements for on-board computers
- G01C21/3691—Retrieval, searching and output of information related to real-time traffic, weather, or environmental conditions
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q10/00—Administration; Management
- G06Q10/10—Office automation; Time management
- G06Q10/109—Time management, e.g. calendars, reminders, meetings or time accounting
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G01—MEASURING; TESTING
- G01C—MEASURING DISTANCES, LEVELS OR BEARINGS; SURVEYING; NAVIGATION; GYROSCOPIC INSTRUMENTS; PHOTOGRAMMETRY OR VIDEOGRAMMETRY
- G01C21/00—Navigation; Navigational instruments not provided for in groups G01C1/00 - G01C19/00
- G01C21/26—Navigation; Navigational instruments not provided for in groups G01C1/00 - G01C19/00 specially adapted for navigation in a road network
- G01C21/34—Route searching; Route guidance
- G01C21/36—Input/output arrangements for on-board computers
- G01C21/3605—Destination input or retrieval
- G01C21/3617—Destination input or retrieval using user history, behaviour, conditions or preferences, e.g. predicted or inferred from previous use or current movement
Abstract
A computing system is described that can provide a user with alerts based on traffic information related to the user's expected travel route. In some embodiments, a user can be alerted if a traffic delay exists on the user's expected travel route. In other embodiments, a user can be alerted when their usual bus or train is delayed. In further embodiments, a user can be alerted when traffic on an expected route to the user's next event location might impact the user's ability to arrive at that location on time
Description
Background technology
Traffic is the permanent problem of modern society. Traffic can cause flight delay, thus lead to miss reservation and be late. The various software application of such as calendar application can be used to provide the prompting of reservation on the horizon and event. But, these are reminded usually based on regular time window, and it does not consider the external variable of the traffic such as going on the route of event or reservation.
Although transport information obtains easily through various forms that are online and traditional media, but this information is just useful when only user expects accessing it. In order to obtain useful information, user must also provide the information of the desired path about them. These steps trouble and consuming time. Therefore, it is still necessary to system that is relevant and transport information timely and process are provided to user.
Summary of the invention
In one example, it is provided that a kind of method using computer processor to produce the relevant traffic warning of border, field. Described method comprises the information receiving the expected route of indicating user and the expection time of departure of described expected route. Such as, described expected route can comprise historical position information. Described method also can comprise by the information storage of reception in memory. Described method also comprises the timed interval limited before the described expection time of departure, and at least one time during the described timed interval, obtains the transport information being associated with described expected route. Such as, the described timed interval can be approximately one hour. Described method also comprises and uses the treater that be coupled with described storer to determine whether there is traffic delay in described expected route at least one time described in during the described timed interval, and by this result storage determined in memory.
In some instances, described method also can be included in the described timed interval during by obtaining the step of the transport information being associated with expected route, determine whether expected route exists step that traffic incurs loss through delay and by this result storage determined step in memory repeatedly at least one time described in during the described timed interval. Described method also can comprise based on this result determined to the running gear output traffic alarm being associated with user. In one example, described method can comprise calculating alternative stroke route, and wherein said traffic alarm comprises described alternative stroke route.
In other example, it is provided that use the other method being correlated with and warn in computer processor generation border, field.Described method comprises the event information receiving and being associated with user. Such as, described event information can comprise event location and event time. Described method also comprises the information of the current position receiving indicating user. Described method also can comprise by the information storage of reception in memory. Described method also comprises and uses the treater that is coupled with described storer to calculate from described current position to the expected route of described event location. Such as, described expected route can comprise historical position information. In other example, can determining minimal path from described current position to described event location, wherein said desired path is based on described minimal path.
Described method also comprises the timed interval limited before described event time, and the very first time during the described timed interval, obtain the transport information being associated with described expected route. Such as, the described timed interval can be approximately six hours. Described method also comprises the travel time of the estimation determining described expected route at least in part based on described transport information, before calculating described event time remaining time the area of a room and the difference of travel time of described estimation, and the result of this calculating is stored in memory.
In some instances, described method can be included in the described timed interval during by before obtaining the step of transport information being associated with expected route, the step determining the travel time of the estimation of expected route at least in part based on described transport information, calculating described event time remaining time the area of a room and the step and by the result storage of this calculating step in memory repeatedly of difference of travel time of described estimation.
When the result of the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and described estimation is less than threshold value when described method is remaining before also can comprising the described event time worked as and calculate, export warning to the running gear being associated with user. Such as, described threshold value can in the scope of about zero minutes to about 15 minutes.
In another example, it is provided that a kind of system producing the relevant traffic warning of border, described system comprises treater and stores the storer of instruction to perform by described treater on it. Described instruction comprises: route and time of departure receiver module, and it receives the expected route of indicating user and the information of the expection time of departure of described expected route; Traffic data collection module, it, at least one time in the timed interval before the described expection time of departure, obtains the transport information being associated with described expected route; Transport data processing module, it processes described transport information to determine at least one time described in during the described timed interval, whether described expected route exists traffic and incurs loss through delay.
In some instances, described instruction also can comprise output module, and it is based on at least one time described in during the described timed interval, whether described expected route existing traffic and incurs loss through delay, to the running gear output traffic alarm being associated with user. Described instruction also can comprise the route calculation module calculating alternative stroke route, and wherein said traffic alarm comprises described alternative stroke route.
In further example, it is provided that producing another system being correlated with and warn in border, field, described system comprises treater and stores the storer of instruction to perform by described treater on it. Described instruction can comprise: event information receiving module, and it receives the information being associated with user, described event information event location and event time;Position receiver module, it receives the information of the current position of the described user of instruction; Route calculation module, it calculates from described current position to the expected route of described event location; Traffic data collection module, it obtains, for the very first time during the timed interval before described event time, the transport information being associated with described expected route.
In one example, described instruction also can comprise transport data processing module, it processes described transport information so that being at least partly based on the travel time that described transport information determines the estimation of described expected route, and the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and described estimation time remaining before calculating described event time. Such as, described expected route can based on historical position information and from described current position to the minimal path of described event location at least one. Described instruction also can comprise output module, when the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and described estimation is less than threshold value when it is remaining before described event time, exports traffic alarm to the running gear being associated with user. Such as, described threshold value can in the scope of about zero minutes to about 15 minutes.
The details of one or more example is set forth in the following drawings and description. Other features, objects and advantages of the present disclosure will according to described description and accompanying drawing and claim book obviously.
Accompanying drawing explanation
Fig. 1 is the schematic diagram of an example of mobile network.
Fig. 2 is the schematic diagram of an example of computer system.
Fig. 3 is the schematic diagram of an example of traffic alarm server.
Fig. 4 is the schema schematically describing to produce the exemplary operations of border, field relevant traffic warning.
Fig. 5 is the schematic diagram of an example of event warning server.
Fig. 6 schematically describes to produce border, field based on transport information to be correlated with the schema of exemplary operations of warning.
Embodiment
The technology being usually directed to provide warning to user based on the transport information relevant to the expected route of user is disclosed herein. In some instances, incur loss through delay if the expected route of user exists traffic, then can warn user. In other example, when the motorbus that user usually takes or train delays, user can be warned. In other example, when the traffic in the desired path of next event location going to user may affect the ability that user arrives this position on time, user can be warned.
Now by some example of description to provide the overall understanding of the principle of the structure to described technology, function, manufacture and use. One or more example shown in accompanying drawing. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that described technology is non-limiting example. The feature illustrated in conjunction with an example or describe can with the characteristics combination of other example. These modifications and variations are intended to be included in the scope of described technology.
When the system discussed below and device are collected or use personal information (such as search history, the position etc.) about user, can to user provide chance with the program of Controlling System and device or feature whether can collect such as, user profile (about the information of the preference of the social network of the e-mail of user, user, Social behaviors or activity, occupation, user, the internet hunt history of user, the current position etc. of user) or Controlling System and device whether can receive and/or how to receive may with user-dependent content.In addition, some data is being stored by system and device or can process according to one or more modes before using, thus remove individual can identifying information. Such as, the identity of user can be processed so that cannot determine that the individual about user can identifying information, or the geographical position generalization (such as, city, postcode or state rank) of the user of acquisition positional information can be made, so that the particular location of user cannot be determined. Therefore, user can control how the information about user is collected and use by system as herein described and device.
Fig. 1 illustrates the example of the mobile network 100 that can realize described one or more technology. Mobile network 100 comprises network of communication 110 and running gear 120. Running gear 120 can be connected to network of communication 110 via various access point 130. Although showing a running gear 120 and an access point 130 for the sake of simplicity, but mobile network 100 can comprise running gear and the access point of any quantity.
Running gear 120 can be or can comprise any calculating device (herein also referred to as " device ") being configured to exchange data through network of communication 110, such as mobile telephone, tablet PC, laptop computer etc. Running gear 120 can also be or can comprise and the device of not necessarily " movement ", such as desk-top computer. Network of communication 110 can comprise any one in the various network of such as GSM, TDMA, CDMA, IEEE802.11, bluetooth, Wi-Fi or other wired or wireless network any or combination of network. Access point 130 can be the transceiver providing gateway between running gear 120 and network of communication 110. Such as, access point 130 can be wireless routing device or cellular network launching tower. In some instances, running gear 120 also can receive global positioning system (GPS) (GPS) signal sent from gps satellite 140.
In the example shown in the series of figures, mobile network 100 also comprises the server 150 that can exchange data via network of communication 110 and running gear 120. Such as, server 150 can in one or more computer system (server computer, Personal Computer, workstation, minicomputer, clustered computing system or embedded computer system) upper realization. Some or all functions in server 150 also can realize running gear 120 with it.
Fig. 2 illustrates the framework that can be used for realizing the running gear 120 of Fig. 1 or the computer system 200 of server 150. Although describing herein and describing computer system 200, it will be appreciated that this is in order to general and convenient. In other example, computer system can be different from the computer system illustrating and describing here at framework and operating aspect.
Illustrated computer system 200 comprises the treater 202 that (such as) controls the operation of computer system 200 by executable operations system (OS), device drives device, application program etc. Treater 202 can comprise microprocessor or the central processing unit (CPU) of any type, comprises any one in general programmable or special microprocessor and/or various proprietary or commercially available single treater or multi-processor system. Computer system 200 also comprises storer 204, and the code performed by treater 202 or the data that process by treater 202 are provided interim or permanent storage by it. Storer 204 can comprise the combination of read-only storage (ROM), flash memory, one or more random access memory (RAM) and/or memory technology. The various component couples of computer system 200 are to total wire system 206.Illustrated total wire system 206 is represent any one or multiple separation physical bus, communication link/interface and/or multiple spot that are connected by suitable bridge, adapter and/or controller or point to point connect abstract.
Computer system 200 also comprises network interface 208, I/O (I/O) interface 210, storing device 212 and display control unit 214. Such as, network interface 208 makes computer system 200 can communicate through network and long-range device (other computer system). Communication between other assemblies various of the convenient one or more input unit of I/O interface 210, one or more take-off equipment and computer system 200. Storing device 212 can comprise any traditional sucrose storing data with non-volatile and/or non-transitory mode. Therefore storing device 212 can preserve data and/or instruction (even if that is, to the power failure of computer system 200, value also will keep) with permanent state. Storing device 212 can comprise one or more hard disk drive, flash drive device, usb driver, CD-ROM drive, various media disc or card and/or its any combination, and can be directly connected to other assembly of computer system 200 or such as be connected to other assembly through network remote. Display control unit 214 comprises video processing device and video storage device, and according to the image that the instruction generation received from treater 202 will be displayed in one or more indicating meter.
The various functions performed by server 150 or running gear 120 can logically be described to perform by one or more module. It is to be understood that these modules can be implemented in hardware, software or its combination. It will also be appreciated that, when being implemented in software, such as, module can be single program or a part for one or more independent program, and can be implemented in various environment (as a part for operating system, device drives device, independent utility and/or its combination). In addition, the software of the one or more module of specific implementation can be used as and can be stored on one or more non-transient computer-readable recording medium by steering routine. The function performed by specific module disclosed herein also can be performed by the combination of other module any or module, and server 150 or running gear 120 can comprise more less than the module illustrated and describe or more module herein.
Collect at disparate modules discussed below, system and device or use the personal information about user (such as, search history, position etc.) when, can to user provide chance whether can collect user profile with control module, system and device or control module, system and device whether can receive and/or how to receive may with user-dependent content. In addition, some data is being stored by module, system and device or can process according to one or more modes before using, thus remove individual can identifying information. Such as, therefore, user can control how the information about user (data) is collected and use by module as herein described, system and device.
Fig. 3 is the schematic diagram of the module of an example of server 150. In this example, incur loss through delay if there is traffic in the expected route of user, then server can provide warning. In one example, as shown in Figure 3, server 150 can comprise the route and time of departure receiver module 300 that are configured to reception route and time of departure data. Route and time of departure data can the expected route of indicating user and the expection time of departure of this expected route.The expected route of user can from historical position inferred from input data. Such as, position and the navigation history of user can be inferred based on the position of the running gear of user and navigation history.
In some instances, it is possible to various timed interval stored position information, with the position history of generator and user. Such as, the application performed on the running gear of user can determine and store the running gear of user position to create position history. This position history can be stored in high-speed cache on the mobile device or other storer, or server can be sent to through mobile network and be stored in data store in.
The position history of running gear within for some time can be analyzed, with the particular rendition stroke route inferred between reproduction (recurring) position. Such as, the position of the family of user can be inferred based on the most common position in position history in for some time during evening. Similarly, the working position of user can be inferred based on the most common position in position history in for some time during daytime. Similarly, the expected route of user between the position of the family of user and working position can be inferred based on the most common stroke route taked between these positions.
Route data also can comprise the information relevant with the travel pattern of route. Route data also can be used for inferring the travel pattern of user. Such as, route data can be used for inferring whether user takes public transport or whether they drive. Route data also can be used for inferring that user takes which motorbus or train usually. Such as, the stroke route of route data and the public transport of storage can be compared. Mating between route data with the stroke route of the public transport of storage, can be used for inferring that user adopts which motorbus or train route usually.
Server 150 also can comprise traffic data collection module 302, and it can be configured to and the database communication storing transport information. Such as, this database can be stored on running gear 120, on server 150 and/or other position (based on the storehouse of cloud). Traffic data collection module 302 can perform various operation for traffic database, such as, read information or Query Database from database. Such as, traffic data collection module 302 can obtain the transport information being associated with expected route. Traffic data can comprise the road traffic data of the state about public transport or current data.
Server 150 also can comprise transport data processing module 304. Transport data processing module 304 can from traffic data collection module 302 receiving traffic information. Then, transport data processing module 304 can process whether transport information exists traffic delay to determine in the expected route received by route and time of departure receiver module 300. Such as, in other example, when deducibility user will take (such as) public transport, whether transport data processing module 304 can process traffic information late with the public transport (motorbus, train etc.) determined user and take.
Server 150 also can comprise output module 306, if it is configured in expected route there is traffic or current delay, then exports traffic alarm. This traffic alarm can be used as transfer and is sent to running gear 120 via mobile network 100, and running gear 120 then can be configured to list or out of Memory display or otherwise present to user. Such as, user's (when button or other user interface element being activated) can be presented in independent utility or in the local map software of running gear.In some instances, warning can be sent to other device and application of being associated with user. Such as, warning can be sent to the calendar application based on web or other calendar application. User can access this warning from other calculating device of running gear or such as desk-top computer or laptop computer.
Schematically show the exemplary operations producing the relevant traffic warning of border, field in the flow chart of figure 4. Although various operation disclosed herein can illustrate about schema, it is noted that these schemas or its any order describing the step implied can not be interpreted as performing the performance constraint of described step for this order. On the contrary, the various steps of operation disclosed herein can perform according to any order in various order. In addition, owing to graphical flow chart is only example, comprise additional step compared with illustrated steps or comprise less step various other operation also in the scope of described technology.
Illustrated operation (can be performed by server 150) in some instances step S400 place: the information receiving the expected route of indicating user. In some instances, the expected route of user can based on historical position data. Such as, the typical stroke route of user can be determined before priority of use during trip along expected route from the position data that the running gear of user is collected. For example, it is contemplated that stroke route can be the daily commute route of user. In some cases, it is contemplated that stroke route can comprise motorbus or the train route that user takes usually.
As an alternative, it is contemplated that the best route between the starting point of stroke route and end point can (such as) calculate based on the minimal path between these positions. The various services of the route guiding calculated between position can be utilized to carry out calculated route. Such as, expected route is calculated by the online services of such as online route guiding engine.
Operate in step S404 place to continue: the information receiving the expection time of departure of instruction expected route. In some instances, it is contemplated that the time of departure can infer from historical data. Such as, historical position data can be used to infer the expection time of departure reappearing trip. Such as, can analysis position data to determine when user usually leaves its family and travel frequently to start. The data (historical data and real time data both) of other type also can be used to infer the expection time of departure. Such as, can use such as, the event (when device of being early taken in is pulled out or otherwise removes from charging unit) detected by the running gear of user infer user will travel frequently.
In step S406, limit the timed interval before the expection time of departure. This timed interval can cover amount any time. Such as, this timed interval can be selected to allow to collect before the expection time of departure and to analyze the time that transport information reaches reasonable amount. In one example, this timed interval can be about one hour.
Continue to perform step S408: during the timed interval defined in step S406, the traffic data collection module 302 of server 150 can with the database communication storing transport information, and obtain the transport information that is associated with expected route. This transport information can comprise the data about the wagon flow speed on the one or more sections being associated with stroke route. Such as, transport information also can comprise the data incuring loss through delay (motorbus or train delays) about public transport.Such as, public transport incurs loss through delay data can comprise the data (late 20 minutes of No. 12 motorbuses) showing to expect that motorbus or train delays certain time measure from public transport operator. Any number of times of transport information can be obtained from traffic information database during the timed interval before the expection time of departure. Such as, transport information only one or many can be obtained.
Operate in step S410 place to continue: transport data processing module 304 determines that whether there is traffic on stroke route incurs loss through delay, and this result is stored in memory. The delay that can comprise the public transport that user takes usually is incured loss through delay in traffic. Step S408 and S410 can during the described timed interval repeatedly. Such as, can obtain during the described timed interval along with closing on the expection time of departure and process transport information repeatedly.
Whether there is the determination that traffic incurs loss through delay to can be qualitatively or quantitative, and can based on any quantity because usually carrying out. Such as, transport information can comprise the data about the wagon flow speed on the one or more sections being associated with stroke route. Transport information also can comprise the data of the speed about the public transport on stroke route. Utilize speed data, the estimation journey time amount along expected route can be calculated. Such as, if the area of a room reaches threshold value amount when the journey time amount estimated exceeds the intended travel along route, then transport data processing module can determine that there is traffic in desired path incurs loss through delay. Described threshold value amount can be represented as per-cent. Such as, if the area of a room reaches about 20% when the journey time amount estimated based on transport information exceeds intended travel, then can determine desired path exists traffic and incur loss through delay. For example, it is contemplated that journey time amount can be the average of the history journey time along expected route. Such as, this can tell user whether specific travelling frequently will spend longer (or shorter) than usual. As an alternative, navigation software can calculate the expeced time do not incured loss through delay, and can measure the delay relative to this expeced time. Incur loss through delay it is to be understood that can use other technology, to determine, whether expected route exists traffic.
In some instances, operation can comprise calculating alternative stroke route. Various services, the program of the route guiding calculated between position can be utilized maybe should to be used for calculating alternative stroke route. Also can calculate alternative stroke route in view of the transport information received from traffic data collection module 302.
When determining that there is traffic in expected route incurs loss through delay, output module, exports warning to present to user by output module 306, such as, as shown in step S412. Specifically, warning can be sent to the running gear 120 of user to present to user. Such as, output module can export warning (as other notice of text message, e-mail or the running gear being sent to user) according to any form in various form. Described warning can comprise the suggestion of alternative stroke route. Example notification may say " you usually travel frequently on wagon flow seem higher than normal ". Another example notification may say " you usually travel frequently on wagon flow higher than habitually in the past, it is intended to alternative route? " Another example notification for the user using public transport may be said " motorbus that you usually take, No. 12 motorbuses, late 20 minutes ".
In some instances, described warning can be sent to other device and application of being associated with user. Such as, described warning can be sent to the calendar application based on web or other calendar application.User can access this warning from the running gear of such as desk-top computer or laptop computer or other calculating device.
In one example, can with determine that substantially the same time provides warning. In other example, it may be preferable to preserve warning until just before expection the time of departure time. Therefore, utilize illustrated operation, warning can be provided based on the transport information relevant with the expected route of user to user.
Fig. 5 is the schematic diagram of the module of another example of server 150. In this example, when the traffic in the desired path of next event location going to user may affect the ability that user arrives this position on time, server can provide warning.
In one example, as shown in Figure 5, server 150 can comprise the event information receiving module 500 being configured to reception event information. This event information can comprise event location and event time. , event location and event time can be inferred from the information (such as, from calendar application) that user provides, as discussed in more detail below. At the module collection of such as event information receiving module 500 described herein or when using about the personal information of user, can to user provide chance whether can collect user profile with the program of control module or feature or control module whether can receive and/or how to receive may with user-dependent content. In addition, some data received module store or use before can process according to one or more modes, thus remove individual can identifying information.
As shown in Figure 5, server 150 can comprise the position receiver module 502 being configured to receive position data. Position data can the current position of indicating user.
In some cases, the current position of user can be inferred from the current position of other object the belongings of running gear or user. In the example depicted in fig. 1, running gear 120 can be configured to utilize mobile network 100 periodically its current position to be transferred to position receiver module 502. This can carry out repeatedly for every minute, within every minute, carry out once, per hour carry out once or carry out according to any Else Rule or the accidental timed interval. Such as, running gear 120 can utilize any technology in various known technology to determine or estimate its current position (by the triangulation processing gps signal, pass through the close degree of other mobile access point 130 of detection and celi towers, Wi-Fi Hotspot or known location or pass through between running gear 120 and this type of access point 130 multiple). In some instances, the computer program run on modular device 120 can utilize multiple plate load or the source (being called location provider) based on server obtain the current position of user or provide the optimum estimate of the position of user.
Such as, position receiver module 502 also can receive the current position (by throwing in mark pin (pin) in specific place or utilizing map software to carry out when equivalence is selected to indicate its current position or when the prompting of its current position being responded when user utilizes offer and register any social activity in multiple social activity application of (check-in) function to be applied in somewhere " registering ", as user) of user as user from other source.
It is to be understood that the position data received by position receiver module 402 do not need the current position of necessary indicating user. On the contrary, user also can provide some other positions (such as, user plans the place in visit in the future), to obtain the warning relevant to this position.
The position data received by position receiver module 502 can be arranged according to the form comprising longitude, Wei Du and accuracy radius. Accuracy radius can represent the estimation of the accuracy of current location data. Source according to position data, accuracy radius can the change from several meters to several kilometers. Such as, must can have the accuracy radius of several meters from the position data of gps signal, and must can have the accuracy radius of several kilometers from the position data of the triangulation of celi towers. Position receiver module 502 also can receive original in degree (rawproximity) or other data from running gear 120, and can perform triangulation or the position calculation of any necessity at server side.
Server 150 also can comprise route calculation module 504, and it can be configured to calculate the expected route from current position to event location. In some instances, it is contemplated that stroke route can based on the historical position information on the route of user between current position and event location, as discussed in more detail below. Such as, in other example, it is contemplated that stroke route can based on the minimal path (served by online direction or engine calculates) from current position to event location.
Server 150 also can comprise traffic data collection module 506, and it can be configured to and the database communication storing transport information. Such as, this database can be stored on running gear 120, on server 150 and/or other position (based on the storehouse of cloud). Traffic data collection module 406 can perform various operation for traffic database, such as, read information or Query Database from database. Such as, traffic data collection module 506 can obtain the transport information being associated with expected route.
Server 150 also can comprise transport data processing module 508. Transport data processing module 508 can from traffic data collection module 506 receiving traffic information. Then, transport data processing module 508 can process transport information to determine the travel time of the estimation of expected route provided by route calculation module 504. The difference of the travel time of the area of a room and estimation when transport data processing module 508 is remaining before also can calculating the event time received by event information receiving module.
Server 150 also can comprise output module 510, exports traffic alarm (as discussed in more detail below) when the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and estimation is less than threshold value when it is configured to remaining before event time. This traffic alarm can be used as transfer and is sent to running gear 120 via mobile network 100, and running gear 120 then can be configured to list or out of Memory display or otherwise present to user. User can be presented to, such as, when button or other user interface element being activated in independent utility or in the local map software of running gear. In some instances, warning can be sent to other device and application of being associated with user. Such as, warning can be sent to the calendar application based on web or other calendar application. User can access this warning from other calculating device of running gear or such as desk-top computer or laptop computer.
Schematically show in the fig. 6 flow diagram based on the operation that transport information produces border, field and is correlated with and warns. Illustrated operation (can be performed by server 150) in some instances step S600 place: receives the event information being associated with user. Described event information can comprise event location and event time. Described event location and event time can be inferred from the information that user provides.
Event information receiving module 500 can receive data from calendar application.Calendar application can be run on the server or on the running gear of user. Such as, the data being associated with calendar application can comprise time of the event in the calendar of user (preengage), date and positional information. If event does not have clear and definite positional information, then can from border, the field inferred position of reservation.
Operate in step S602 place to continue: the information being received the current position of indicating user by position receiver module 502. As mentioned above, it is necessary, in some cases, the current position of user can be inferred from the current position of other object the belongings of running gear or user. Such as, running gear can be configured to use mobile network periodically its current position to be transferred to position receiver module. This can carry out repeatedly for every minute, within every minute, carry out once, per hour carry out once or carry out according to any Else Rule or the accidental timed interval. Such as, running gear 120 can use any technology in various known technology to determine or estimate its current position (by the triangulation processing gps signal, pass through the close degree of other mobile access point 130 of detection and celi towers, Wi-Fi Hotspot or known location or pass through between running gear 120 and this type of access point 130 multiple). Such as, position receiver module 502 also can from the current position (when any social activity in using the multiple social activities providing function of registering to apply as user is applied in somewhere " registering ", when user is by marking pin in the input of specific place or utilize map software to carry out when equivalence is selected to indicate its current position or when the prompting of its current position being responded as user) of other source reception user.
The position data received by position receiver module 502 can be arranged according to the form comprising longitude, Wei Du and accuracy radius. Accuracy radius can represent the estimation of the accuracy of current location data. Source according to position data, accuracy radius can the change from several meters to several kilometers. Such as, must can have the accuracy radius of several meters from the position data of gps signal, and must can have the accuracy radius of several kilometers from the position data of the triangulation of celi towers. Position receiver module 502 also can receive original in degree or other data from running gear 120, and can perform triangulation or the position calculation of any necessity at server side. Receive the expection time of departure of expected route. In some instances, it is contemplated that the time of departure can infer from historical data. Such as, historical position data can be used to infer the expection time of departure reappearing trip. Such as, can analysis position data to determine when user leaves its family's travelling frequently to start working usually. The data (historical data and real time data both) of other type also can be used to infer the expection time of departure. Such as, such as, the event (when device of being early taken in is pulled out or otherwise removes from charging unit) detected by the running gear of user can be used to infer, and user will start working travels frequently.
Operate in step S604 place to continue: calculate the expected route from current position to event location by route calculation module 504. Expected route can based on the historical position data collected by server. Such as, if user is previously between current position and event location, then can determine the typical stroke route of user before priority of use during trip from the position data that the running gear of user is collected.As an alternative, route calculation module (such as) can determine the best route between these positions based on the minimal path between current position and event location. Best route also can based on the fastest route in view of available traffic information, between current position and event location. The various services of the route guiding calculated between position can be utilized to carry out calculated route. Such as, expected route is calculated by route guiding engine.
Continue to perform step S606: limit the timed interval before event time. This timed interval can cover amount any time. Such as, the described timed interval can be selected to allow to collect and to analyze transport information. The described timed interval can be selected as making when leaving current position in time so that when arriving event location before event time, warning (discussing in more detail below) can be exported to user. In one example, the described timed interval can be about six hours.
Operate in step S608 place to continue: during the timed interval defined in step S606, the traffic data collection module 502 of server 150 can with the database communication storing transport information, and obtain the transport information that is associated with expected route. This transport information can comprise the data about the wagon flow speed on the one or more sections being associated with stroke route. Any number of times of transport information can be obtained from traffic information database during the timed interval before the expection time of departure. Such as, transport information only one or many can be obtained.
Operate in step S610 place to continue: transport data processing module 508 determines the travel time of the estimation of expected route at least in part based on transport information. Such as, such as, the route calculated by route calculation module 508 can comprise between the starting point of route and end point the journey time of the estimation (between current position and event location). The journey time that transport information increases and estimates can be used, to provide the estimation more accurately of the travel time of estimation. Such as, transport information can comprise the data about the wagon flow speed on the one or more sections being associated with stroke route, and these data can be used for calculating the travel time of the estimation of expected route.
In step S612, the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and estimation when transport data processing module is remaining before can calculating event time. Area of a room when described difference represents that user must leave remaining before current position arrives event location with on time (that is, before event time). Such as, if the travel time estimated is 30 minutes, time remaining before event time, the area of a room is 50 minutes, then the difference calculated will be 20 minutes. In such an example, current position must be left user and (that is, before event time), 20 minutes will be remained before arrival event location with on time. Can repeating step S608, S610 and S612 many times during the described timed interval. Each repeating said steps, can receiving traffic information, it may be determined that the travel time of estimation, and the difference of the travel time of the area of a room and estimation time remaining before event time can being calculated.
Operate in decision-making block D614 place to continue: determine whether the result of the difference calculated in step S612 place is less than threshold value. If the difference calculated in step S612 place is not less than threshold value (decision-making block D614 is "No"), then returns and perform step S608, and process repetition. When the difference calculated in step S612 place is less than threshold value (decision-making block D614 is "Yes"), then perform step S616.Described threshold value represents the prompting window providing prompting when leaving in time to user. Such as, described threshold value can in the scope of about zero minutes to about 15 minutes.
In step S616, export warning to present to user by output module 510. Specifically, warning can be sent to the running gear 120 of user to present to user. Output module can according to any form in various form export warning (such as, as text message, e-mail, remind or be sent to user running gear other notice). Such as, such as, the exportable warning that the prompting to event (calendar item) is occurred of output module. Described prompting can be revised from usual event notification, must leave its current position to arrive the notice of event location on time to comprise user. Notice may say " go to you meeting route on have traffic congestion, you should just set out to arrive now on time ". It is to be understood that the threshold value used in decision-making block D614 can be used for certain time warning that user provides it to set out. This kind of notice may say " go to you meeting route on have traffic congestion, you should set out to arrive in 15 minutes on time ".
In some instances, warning can be sent to other device and application of being associated with user. Such as, warning can be sent to the calendar application based on web or other calendar application. User can access described warning from other calculating device of running gear or such as desk-top computer or laptop computer. , it may also be useful to illustrated operation, therefore when the traffic in the desired path of next event location going to user may affect the ability that user arrives this position on time, warning can be provided to user.
Although describing described technology with reference to particular example, it should be appreciated that can carry out many changes in the spirit and scope of described concept. Therefore, described technology is intended to be not limited to described example, and contrary described technology has the full breadth limited by the language of appended claims.
Claims (20)
1. using computer processor to produce a method for border, field relevant traffic warning, described method comprises:
A () receives the information of the expected route of indicating user and this information is stored in memory;
B () receives the information indicating the expection time of departure being used for described expected route and this information is stored in memory;
C () limits the timed interval before the described expection time of departure;
D (), at least one time during the described timed interval, obtains the transport information being associated with described expected route;
E () uses the treater that is coupled with described storer, at least one time described in during the described timed interval determines whether there is traffic delay in described expected route; And
F the described result determined is stored in which memory by ().
2. method according to claim 1, also comprises: during the described timed interval, repeating step (d), (e) and (f) are repeatedly.
3. method according to claim 1, also comprises: export traffic alarm based on the described result determined to the running gear being associated with described user.
4. method according to claim 3, also comprises: calculating alternative stroke route, wherein said traffic alarm comprises described alternative stroke route.
5. method according to claim 1, wherein said expected route comprises historical position information.
6. method according to claim 1, the length in the wherein said timed interval is approximately one hour.
7. using the method being correlated with and warn in computer processor generation border, field, described method comprises:
A () receives the event information being associated with user and this information is stored in memory, described event information event location and event time;
B () receives the information of the current position of the described user of instruction and this information is stored in memory;
C () uses the treater being coupled with described storer, calculate from described current position to the expected route of described event location;
D () limits the timed interval before described event time;
(e) very first time during the described timed interval, obtain the transport information being associated with described expected route;
F () determines the travel time of the estimation of described expected route at least in part based on described transport information;
The difference of the area of a room and estimated travel time when () is remaining before calculating described event time g;
H the result of described calculating is stored in which memory by ().
8. method according to claim 7, also comprises: during the described timed interval, repeating step (e)-(h) is repeatedly.
9. method according to claim 7, also comprises: when the calculation result of step (g) is less than threshold value, exports warning to the running gear being associated with described user.
10. method according to claim 9, wherein said threshold value is in the scope of about zero minutes to about 15 minutes.
11. methods according to claim 7, wherein said expected route comprises historical position information.
12. methods according to claim 7, also comprise: determine that, from described current position to the minimal path of described event location, wherein said expected route is based on described minimal path.
13. methods according to claim 7, the length in the wherein said timed interval is approximately six hours.
14. 1 kinds of systems for generation of the warning of border, field relevant traffic, described system comprises:
Treater and store the storer of instruction to perform by described treater on it, described instruction comprises:
Route and time of departure receiver module, it receives the expected route of indicating user and the information of the expection time of departure for described expected route;
Traffic data collection module, it, at least one time in the timed interval before the described expection time of departure, obtains the transport information being associated with described expected route;
Transport data processing module, it processes described transport information to determine that at least one time described in during the described timed interval whether there is traffic in described expected route incurs loss through delay.
15. systems according to claim 14, wherein said instruction also comprises: output module, it is based on at least one time described in during the described timed interval, whether described expected route exists traffic incur loss through delay, export traffic alarm to the running gear being associated with described user.
16. systems according to claim 15, wherein said instruction also comprises: route calculation module, and it calculates alternative stroke route, and wherein said traffic alarm comprises described alternative stroke route.
17. 1 kinds of systems be correlated with warn for generation of border, field, described system comprises:
Treater and store the storer of instruction to perform by described treater on it, described instruction comprises:
Event information receiving module, it receives the information being associated with user, described event information event location and event time;
Position receiver module, it receives the information of the current position of the described user of instruction;
Route calculation module, it calculates from described current position to the expected route of described event location;
Traffic data collection module, it obtains, for the very first time during the timed interval before described event time, the transport information being associated with described expected route;
Transport data processing module, its (i) processes described transport information so that being at least partly based on the travel time that described transport information determines the estimation of described expected route, and the difference of the area of a room and estimated travel time when (i) is remaining before calculating described event time.
18. systems according to claim 17, wherein said expected route based on historical position information and from described current position to the minimal path of described event location at least one.
19. systems according to claim 17, wherein said instruction also comprises: output module, when the difference of the area of a room and estimated travel time is less than threshold value when it is remaining before described event time, export traffic alarm to the running gear being associated with described user.
20. systems according to claim 19, wherein said threshold value is in the scope of about zero minutes to about 15 minutes.
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201261663049P | 2012-06-22 | 2012-06-22 | |
US61/663,049 | 2012-06-22 | ||
US201261663813P | 2012-06-25 | 2012-06-25 | |
US61/663,813 | 2012-06-25 | ||
PCT/US2013/047080 WO2013192533A2 (en) | 2012-06-22 | 2013-06-21 | Contextual traffic or transit alerts |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105683716A true CN105683716A (en) | 2016-06-15 |
CN105683716B CN105683716B (en) | 2018-07-17 |
Family
ID=48747766
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201380033086.1A Active CN105683716B (en) | 2012-06-22 | 2013-06-21 | Context traffic or current warning |
Country Status (3)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US9002636B2 (en) |
CN (1) | CN105683716B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2013192533A2 (en) |
Cited By (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN106558230A (en) * | 2016-12-30 | 2017-04-05 | 深圳天珑无线科技有限公司 | Road condition information acquisition method and device |
CN109508734A (en) * | 2018-10-26 | 2019-03-22 | 北京交通大学 | Road network ability bottleneck identification method based on spectral clustering |
Families Citing this family (20)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US7221287B2 (en) | 2002-03-05 | 2007-05-22 | Triangle Software Llc | Three-dimensional traffic report |
US7610145B2 (en) | 2003-07-25 | 2009-10-27 | Triangle Software Llc | System and method for determining recommended departure time |
US9037390B2 (en) * | 2008-10-22 | 2015-05-19 | Tomtom International B.V. | Navigation system and method for providing departure times |
US8351912B2 (en) * | 2008-12-12 | 2013-01-08 | Research In Motion Limited | System and method for providing traffic notifications to mobile devices |
US8619072B2 (en) | 2009-03-04 | 2013-12-31 | Triangle Software Llc | Controlling a three-dimensional virtual broadcast presentation |
US8725396B2 (en) * | 2011-05-18 | 2014-05-13 | Pelmorex Canada Inc. | System for providing traffic data and driving efficiency data |
CA2883973C (en) | 2012-01-27 | 2021-02-23 | Edgar Rojas | Estimating time travel distributions on signalized arterials |
CN104396284B (en) | 2012-06-22 | 2016-09-07 | 谷歌公司 | Present the information for current location or time |
US10223909B2 (en) | 2012-10-18 | 2019-03-05 | Uber Technologies, Inc. | Estimating time travel distributions on signalized arterials |
US9739626B2 (en) * | 2014-03-31 | 2017-08-22 | Amadeus S.A.S. | Journey planning method and system |
KR102223499B1 (en) * | 2014-03-31 | 2021-03-08 | 아마데우스 에스.에이.에스. | Journey planning method and system |
US9652747B2 (en) * | 2014-04-30 | 2017-05-16 | Intel Corporation | Context based alert system |
US9503516B2 (en) | 2014-08-06 | 2016-11-22 | Google Technology Holdings LLC | Context-based contact notification |
US9791282B2 (en) * | 2014-09-27 | 2017-10-17 | Intel Corporation | Technologies for route navigation sharing in a community cloud |
US11182870B2 (en) | 2014-12-24 | 2021-11-23 | Mcafee, Llc | System and method for collective and collaborative navigation by a group of individuals |
RU2718974C2 (en) | 2015-10-29 | 2020-04-15 | Аксон Вайб Аг | Passive payments system and method based on location determination |
US20180012118A1 (en) * | 2016-07-06 | 2018-01-11 | Inthinc Technology Solutions, Inc. | Predictive visual and verbal mentoring |
US20210125499A1 (en) * | 2019-10-23 | 2021-04-29 | Uber Technologies, Inc. | Variable range offerings for light electric vehicles based on user profiles |
US11816603B2 (en) | 2020-09-22 | 2023-11-14 | Uber Technolgies, Inc. | Active notification using transportation service prediction |
KR20230006387A (en) * | 2021-07-02 | 2023-01-10 | 광주과학기술원 | Anti-freezing composition |
Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020019835A1 (en) * | 2000-06-09 | 2002-02-14 | Reinhold Baur | Metod of planning appointments and electronic organiser therefor |
US20060173841A1 (en) * | 2004-10-29 | 2006-08-03 | Bill David S | Determining a route to destination based on partially completed route |
US20070276585A1 (en) * | 2006-05-26 | 2007-11-29 | Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd. | Navigation apparatus, vehicle lending system, and vehicle lending method |
US20110246404A1 (en) * | 2010-03-30 | 2011-10-06 | Sap Ag | Method for Allocating Trip Sharing |
Family Cites Families (56)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US8799461B2 (en) | 1994-11-29 | 2014-08-05 | Apple Inc. | System for collecting, analyzing, and transmitting information relevant to transportation networks |
US6177905B1 (en) * | 1998-12-08 | 2001-01-23 | Avaya Technology Corp. | Location-triggered reminder for mobile user devices |
US6587782B1 (en) * | 2000-03-14 | 2003-07-01 | Navigation Technologies Corp. | Method and system for providing reminders about points of interests while traveling |
US7243130B2 (en) | 2000-03-16 | 2007-07-10 | Microsoft Corporation | Notification platform architecture |
US7289812B1 (en) * | 2001-12-20 | 2007-10-30 | Adobe Systems Incorporated | Location-based bookmarks |
JP2004096621A (en) | 2002-09-03 | 2004-03-25 | Fujitsu Ltd | Information distribution service system based on prediction of positional change of mobile information terminal |
US20060167592A1 (en) | 2003-02-25 | 2006-07-27 | Takahiro Kudo | Execution support system and execution support method |
JP3669702B2 (en) | 2003-02-25 | 2005-07-13 | 松下電器産業株式会社 | Application program prediction method and mobile terminal |
JPWO2005038680A1 (en) | 2003-10-15 | 2007-01-25 | 富士通株式会社 | Information delivery service providing system, information delivery method in the system, and server system used in the system |
WO2005121706A1 (en) | 2004-06-11 | 2005-12-22 | Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. | Map display device and map display method |
US7835859B2 (en) | 2004-10-29 | 2010-11-16 | Aol Inc. | Determining a route to a destination based on partially completed route |
US7490003B2 (en) * | 2005-04-18 | 2009-02-10 | Microsoft Corporation | System and method for providing a location snapshot service and associating a snapshot with location container data |
US7394405B2 (en) * | 2005-06-01 | 2008-07-01 | Gm Global Technology Operations, Inc. | Location-based notifications |
US20080167802A1 (en) | 2005-12-07 | 2008-07-10 | Mototaka Yoshioka | Route information display device and route information display method |
CN101228413A (en) | 2005-12-07 | 2008-07-23 | 松下电器产业株式会社 | Route information display device amd route information display method |
US7847686B1 (en) * | 2006-01-06 | 2010-12-07 | Avaya Inc. | Location-and direction-enhanced automatic reminders of appointments |
US7941753B2 (en) * | 2006-03-31 | 2011-05-10 | Aol Inc. | Communicating appointment and/or mapping information among a calendar application and a navigation application |
WO2007119559A1 (en) | 2006-04-14 | 2007-10-25 | Panasonic Corporation | Destination prediction device and destination prediction method |
US20070288279A1 (en) * | 2006-06-07 | 2007-12-13 | Microsoft Corporation | Entering And Using Time Ranges |
US7664530B2 (en) * | 2006-06-09 | 2010-02-16 | AT&I Intellectual Property I, L.P | Method and system for automated planning using geographical data |
US7787857B2 (en) * | 2006-06-12 | 2010-08-31 | Garmin Ltd. | Method and apparatus for providing an alert utilizing geographic locations |
WO2008041480A1 (en) | 2006-09-28 | 2008-04-10 | Panasonic Corporation | Device and method for predicting destination |
US8781728B2 (en) | 2006-10-26 | 2014-07-15 | Panasonic Corporation | Travel history editing device |
US7840331B2 (en) | 2006-11-02 | 2010-11-23 | Panasonic Corporation | Travel support system and travel support method |
US8170960B1 (en) | 2006-11-22 | 2012-05-01 | Aol Inc. | User behavior-based remotely-triggered automated actions |
US8224359B2 (en) | 2006-12-22 | 2012-07-17 | Yahoo! Inc. | Provisioning my status information to others in my social network |
US7869941B2 (en) * | 2006-12-29 | 2011-01-11 | Aol Inc. | Meeting notification and modification service |
JP4438812B2 (en) | 2007-03-27 | 2010-03-24 | アイシン・エィ・ダブリュ株式会社 | Hybrid travel assist method and hybrid travel assist device |
WO2009029910A2 (en) | 2007-08-31 | 2009-03-05 | Proxpro, Inc. | Situation-aware personal information management for a mobile device |
WO2009054130A1 (en) | 2007-10-23 | 2009-04-30 | Panasonic Corporation | Destination display device and destination display method |
US8166019B1 (en) | 2008-07-21 | 2012-04-24 | Sprint Communications Company L.P. | Providing suggested actions in response to textual communications |
US20100174998A1 (en) | 2009-01-06 | 2010-07-08 | Kiha Software Inc. | Calendaring Location-Based Events and Associated Travel |
US8463286B2 (en) | 2009-01-27 | 2013-06-11 | Apple Inc. | Systems and methods for accessing travel services using a portable electronic device |
DE102009042664A1 (en) | 2009-09-23 | 2011-04-07 | Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft | Method and device for providing information about a user of a social network in the social network |
US20120221231A1 (en) | 2009-10-14 | 2012-08-30 | Ntt Docomo, Inc. | Positional information analysis device and positional information analysis method |
US8451112B2 (en) | 2009-10-19 | 2013-05-28 | Qualcomm Incorporated | Methods and apparatus for estimating departure time based on known calendar events |
US8713094B2 (en) | 2009-11-21 | 2014-04-29 | Michael-Anthony W. Lisboa | Event-associating software application for accessing digital media |
US8126903B2 (en) | 2009-12-21 | 2012-02-28 | Sap Ag | Computer implemented method for allocating drivers and passengers sharing a trip |
JP2011118777A (en) | 2009-12-04 | 2011-06-16 | Sony Corp | Learning device, learning method, prediction device, prediction method, and program |
JP2011118755A (en) | 2009-12-04 | 2011-06-16 | Sony Corp | Learning device, learning method, and program |
EP4053506A1 (en) | 2009-12-29 | 2022-09-07 | Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. | System and method of automatic destination selection |
US20110175724A1 (en) | 2010-01-18 | 2011-07-21 | Angela Petra Kent | Event and Time Tracking and Emergency Notification System |
DE102010002741A1 (en) | 2010-03-10 | 2011-09-15 | Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft | Method for operating an information system, user device and information system |
US20120102013A1 (en) | 2010-04-09 | 2012-04-26 | Christopher Martini | Method and Apparatus for Duration-Based Search |
JP2011252844A (en) | 2010-06-03 | 2011-12-15 | Sony Corp | Data processing device, data processing method and program |
JP2012003494A (en) | 2010-06-16 | 2012-01-05 | Sony Corp | Information processing device, information processing method and program |
JP2012008659A (en) | 2010-06-22 | 2012-01-12 | Sony Corp | Data processing device, data processing method, and program |
JP2012008771A (en) | 2010-06-24 | 2012-01-12 | Sony Corp | Information processing device, information processing system, information processing method and program |
US8548495B2 (en) | 2010-09-08 | 2013-10-01 | Texas Instruments Incorporated | System and method for determining a position of a mobile wireless device by accessing access points alamanacs database |
JP2012108748A (en) | 2010-11-18 | 2012-06-07 | Sony Corp | Data processing device, data processing method, and program |
US8639719B2 (en) | 2011-02-02 | 2014-01-28 | Paul Tepper Fisher | System and method for metadata capture, extraction and analysis |
KR20140039194A (en) | 2011-04-25 | 2014-04-01 | 비비오, 인크. | System and method for an intelligent personal timeline assistant |
US20130103300A1 (en) | 2011-10-25 | 2013-04-25 | Nokia Corporation | Method and apparatus for predicting a travel time and destination before traveling |
US20130218445A1 (en) | 2012-02-16 | 2013-08-22 | Intelligent Mechatronic Systems Inc. | Traffic portal enquiry and alert system |
JP2013211616A (en) | 2012-03-30 | 2013-10-10 | Sony Corp | Terminal device, terminal control method, program, and information processing system |
US20130321178A1 (en) | 2012-05-29 | 2013-12-05 | Akhtar Jameel | Shared vehicle rental system including transmission of reservation information and targeted advertising |
-
2013
- 2013-06-21 CN CN201380033086.1A patent/CN105683716B/en active Active
- 2013-06-21 WO PCT/US2013/047080 patent/WO2013192533A2/en active Application Filing
- 2013-07-12 US US13/940,338 patent/US9002636B2/en active Active
-
2015
- 2015-02-06 US US14/616,284 patent/US20150153194A1/en not_active Abandoned
Patent Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020019835A1 (en) * | 2000-06-09 | 2002-02-14 | Reinhold Baur | Metod of planning appointments and electronic organiser therefor |
US20060173841A1 (en) * | 2004-10-29 | 2006-08-03 | Bill David S | Determining a route to destination based on partially completed route |
US20070276585A1 (en) * | 2006-05-26 | 2007-11-29 | Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd. | Navigation apparatus, vehicle lending system, and vehicle lending method |
US20110246404A1 (en) * | 2010-03-30 | 2011-10-06 | Sap Ag | Method for Allocating Trip Sharing |
Cited By (3)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN106558230A (en) * | 2016-12-30 | 2017-04-05 | 深圳天珑无线科技有限公司 | Road condition information acquisition method and device |
CN109508734A (en) * | 2018-10-26 | 2019-03-22 | 北京交通大学 | Road network ability bottleneck identification method based on spectral clustering |
CN109508734B (en) * | 2018-10-26 | 2022-03-11 | 北京交通大学 | Road network capacity bottleneck identification method based on spectral clustering |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20130345953A1 (en) | 2013-12-26 |
CN105683716B (en) | 2018-07-17 |
US20150153194A1 (en) | 2015-06-04 |
US9002636B2 (en) | 2015-04-07 |
WO2013192533A2 (en) | 2013-12-27 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105683716A (en) | Contextual traffic or transit alerts | |
CN110361024B (en) | Method and system for dynamic lane-level vehicle navigation with vehicle group identification | |
CN113029177B (en) | Frequency-based traffic travel characterization | |
US10567923B2 (en) | Computation service for mobile nodes in a roadway environment | |
US9958280B2 (en) | Assessing inter-modal passenger travel options | |
US10120381B2 (en) | Identifying significant locations based on vehicle probe data | |
KR101959065B1 (en) | Method of generating expected average speeds of travel | |
US20230227057A1 (en) | Reminding method and apparatus in assisted driving, reminding method and apparatus in map-assisted driving, and map | |
US11248920B1 (en) | Systems and methods for assessment of rideshare trip | |
US10859391B2 (en) | Method, apparatus, and computer program product for predicting range of an electric vehicle | |
US20200372012A1 (en) | System and method for updating map data in a map database | |
US11537944B2 (en) | Method and system to generate machine learning model for evaluating quality of data | |
EP3671126A1 (en) | Method, apparatus, and system for providing road closure graph inconsistency resolution | |
US20210327261A1 (en) | Method, apparatus, and computer program product for reducing redundant data uploads | |
JP6982237B2 (en) | Candidate position evaluation program, candidate position evaluation device, and candidate position evaluation method | |
EP3857862B1 (en) | A mechanism to determine cellular signal reputation of a location and intelligently manage lack of connectivity | |
CN110113716B (en) | Path state information acquisition method and device and storage medium | |
JP5901392B2 (en) | Information processing system and information processing method | |
JP2019096085A (en) | Information processing device | |
JP2019096084A (en) | Information processing device | |
CN113516843A (en) | Method and device for determining estimated arrival time, electronic equipment and computer-readable storage medium | |
CN106781470B (en) | Method and device for processing running speed of urban road | |
US20230324195A1 (en) | Real-time lane-level traffic processing system and method | |
US20220057229A1 (en) | System and method for determining useful ground truth data | |
EP4012680A1 (en) | Method, apparatus and computer program product for detecting a lane closure using probe data |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |