CN105264902B - For multi-user, the system of multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment Universal Remote media control - Google Patents
For multi-user, the system of multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment Universal Remote media control Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105264902B CN105264902B CN201480027596.2A CN201480027596A CN105264902B CN 105264902 B CN105264902 B CN 105264902B CN 201480027596 A CN201480027596 A CN 201480027596A CN 105264902 B CN105264902 B CN 105264902B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- media
- equipment
- media player
- controller equipment
- media controller
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/41—Structure of client; Structure of client peripherals
- H04N21/4104—Peripherals receiving signals from specially adapted client devices
- H04N21/4112—Peripherals receiving signals from specially adapted client devices having fewer capabilities than the client, e.g. thin client having less processing power or no tuning capabilities
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F3/00—Input arrangements for transferring data to be processed into a form capable of being handled by the computer; Output arrangements for transferring data from processing unit to output unit, e.g. interface arrangements
- G06F3/01—Input arrangements or combined input and output arrangements for interaction between user and computer
- G06F3/048—Interaction techniques based on graphical user interfaces [GUI]
- G06F3/0484—Interaction techniques based on graphical user interfaces [GUI] for the control of specific functions or operations, e.g. selecting or manipulating an object, an image or a displayed text element, setting a parameter value or selecting a range
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/41—Structure of client; Structure of client peripherals
- H04N21/4104—Peripherals receiving signals from specially adapted client devices
- H04N21/4126—The peripheral being portable, e.g. PDAs or mobile phones
- H04N21/41265—The peripheral being portable, e.g. PDAs or mobile phones having a remote control device for bidirectional communication between the remote control device and client device
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/41—Structure of client; Structure of client peripherals
- H04N21/422—Input-only peripherals, i.e. input devices connected to specially adapted client devices, e.g. global positioning system [GPS]
- H04N21/42204—User interfaces specially adapted for controlling a client device through a remote control device; Remote control devices therefor
- H04N21/42206—User interfaces specially adapted for controlling a client device through a remote control device; Remote control devices therefor characterized by hardware details
- H04N21/42208—Display device provided on the remote control
- H04N21/42209—Display device provided on the remote control for displaying non-command information, e.g. electronic program guide [EPG], e-mail, messages or a second television channel
Abstract
A kind of system makes it possible to carry out the control of Universal Remote media across multiple platforms, equipment and user.A kind of activity (TV programme such as played on the media player) that agreement allows media controller (such as computer or mobile device) Internet access to be currently running.The agreement is not required for the application of installation particular platform or particular user login/pairing of media controller and media player.The system is received from media controller equipment using public interface and is ordered, and the order is provided to remote media player, new media content is loaded among the media player based on the order, and from the media player receipt status notification.The order and the state notifying include the NameSpace and message payload for being represented as two element script arrays.Another user or equipment are able to use such as common interface as provided by the browser application in the media controller equipment and control the media player.
Description
Related application
It is entitled " for multi-user, multi-platform, leading in multi-equipment environment this application claims what is submitted on May 7th, 2014
The system controlled with remote media " (" SYSTEM FOR UNIVERSAL REMOTE MEDIA CONTROL IN A MULTI-
USER, MULTI-PLATFORM, MULTI-DEVICE ENVIROMENT ") U.S. Non-provisional Patent application number 14/272300
Priority and as its continuation application, the latter and then require submitted on May 14th, 2013 it is entitled " for multi-user,
The system of Universal Remote media control multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment " (" SYSTEM FOR UNIVERSAL REMOTE
MEDIA CONTROL IN A MULTI-USER, MULTI-PLATFORM, MULTI-DEVICE ENVIROMENT ") the U.S.
The priority of Provisional Patent Application No. 61/823016, above-mentioned two parts of applications are all hereby incorporated by by reference of text.
Technical field
Present disclose relates generally to the interactions between the first equipment of such as media player and control equipment, more particularly to
Multi-user, multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment remote media control.
Background technique
Using that can show user interface to allow user to control when in the vicinity video screen and hand over therewith
Mutually.However, establishing pairing between both devices uses registration process, it is required that user clearly awards the control from equipment
Power access, or increase hardware expanding to equipment and matched with being forced through some channel, this needs disposable pairing behaviour
Make.These technologies often require that user has gained some understanding to pairing and requires coupling hardware, and this is in TV or equipment
It all may not be intrinsic for any one.In addition, distance and various forms of interference limit performance, and
The equipment interface may be only connected to a TV.
Summary of the invention
It is a kind of to be included at media controller equipment for providing the method that remote media controls according to a general aspect
The set operated for the useable medium of process content is received from media player.The method includes controlling via the media
Browser application or mobile application in device equipment provide user interface, are set using the user interface from the media controller
Standby to generate command messages, the command messages are provided to institute by the set that the command messages are operated based on the useable medium
Media player is stated, from the media player receipt status notification, and in response to the state notifying from the media control
Device processed sends additional command messages.
Embodiment can be individually or in conjunction with each other including one or more of following characteristics.The method can be with
It is included at the second media controller equipment and receives the state notifying, and is directed to institute from the second media controller equipment
It states media and broadcasts device and send new command messages, wherein the command messages are used the user interface from second media
Controller equiment receives.The command messages can be defined based on public (common) agreement.The media player can be with
It is configured to export the content of at least one concrete type.The user interface can permit to be selected from multiple media players
The media player.The method may include receive to define how to indicate the content of the content from the media player
Metadata.The user interface can permit input of the user to another media player.The command messages can be based on
The set for the operation that certain types of media player is supported.The state notifying may include the volume status of content and broadcast
Put state.The command messages and the state notifying may include being represented as the NameSpace of two element script arrays and disappearing
Cease payload.The user interface may include the option for controlling content, including stop or suspend content, increases or subtracts
The volume of small content searches for the specific position into the content, is navigated between the project in broadcasting queue, changes sound
Frequency track or be the curriculum offering title.
In another general aspect, a kind of method for using remote media control includes via the clear of media player
The service look in device receives command messages from media controller equipment, is in the media player based on the command messages
Existing content provides state notifying from the media player, and logical in response to the state while content is presented
Know from the media controller equipment and receives additional command messages.
Embodiment can be individually or in conjunction with each other including one or more of following characteristics.The command messages
It can be defined based on common protocol.The method may include provide user interface via the media controller equipment.Institute
Stating user interface can be independently of the application specific to platform installed in the media controller equipment.The user interface
It can permit and select the media player from multiple media players.The method may include in the second media controller
The user interface is provided in equipment.The method may include show in the user interface for controlling the content
Option.
Other embodiment includes corresponding system, device, and what is encoded on computer memory device be configured
For execute the method movement computer program.
One of embodiment of theme as described herein a variety of provides one of following advantage or a variety of.
The system allows (as what is remotely controlled) discovery between arbitrary equipment and television equipment and interacts without setting at two
Clearly matched between standby, without tool required by podium level or application layer, and be not limited to single user or
The experience of individual equipment.
Details of one or more embodiments provide in the accompanying drawings and the description below.Other features will be due to the description
It is obvious with attached drawing and claim.
Detailed description of the invention
Fig. 1 is the block diagram that can be used to the system of remote media control.
Fig. 2 is the block diagram that can be used to the system of remote media control.
Fig. 3 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.
Fig. 4 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.
Fig. 5 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.
Fig. 6 is the flow chart that can be utilized to implement the process of remote media control.
Fig. 7 is the flow chart that can be used to the process of remote media control.
Fig. 8, which is illustrated, can be utilized to implement the calculating equipment of technology as described herein and showing for mobile computing device
Example.
Same appended drawing reference indicates same element in each figure.
Specific embodiment
User sets across the multiple of smart phone, tablet computer, PC, console/STB, TV etc. more and more
The standby content to consume them.However, the integrative levels of experience of the user across these equipment are very low.For most users
Speech, the experience across equipment boundary is entirely different.Certain solutions are only the Demand and service of specific application.Other contents
Supplier can not be implemented in the solution of those types.In addition, certain systems are specific for platform.With respective class
Many household electrical appliance of the equipment of type each of which operated using different platform in the case where, specific to the solution party of platform
Case only allows the subset of household electrical appliance to use the system.In addition, those solutions are originally single users, and to initiate dynamic
The user of work is only allowed to the user interacted in a meaningful way with the activity due to the movement.If someone broadcasts
Content is put, another person can not possibly even suspend the content (can not occupy for initiating interactive equipment).In addition, certain systems
System may be podium level or application layer, without the cooperating between layer.If by being played applying on TV,
The platform can not be implemented to control or inspect to this.If an equipment starts to play in the application and battery exhausts, user
Can not pick up another equipment to control and play.Alternatively, user, which must place hope on, is mounted with correctly to apply, positioning
It the application and loads it.
System and method as described herein make it possible to carry out remote media control across multiple users, platform and equipment.
Fig. 1 is the block diagram that can be used to the system of remote media control.System 100 may include media controller
Equipment 102A, media controller equipment 102B, server 110 and media player 130, they pass through at least one network 120
It is interconnected.
Media controller equipment 102A and media controller equipment 102B can be computer, smart phone, meter on knee
Calculation machine, or can execute user interface, downloading and execute software application and with server 110 and media player 130 into
The similar devices of row communication.Media controller equipment 102A and media controller equipment 102B may include display screen and application,
It is described to apply the web browser that such as show user interface.It can be used as the equipment that media controller equipment is operated
Various alternative and additional example be described in more detail below in relation to Fig. 8.
Server 110 can be remote server, be operated to handle order and status message to such as matchmaker
The media player of body player 130 is controlled.
Network 120 can be the combination of single network or any type of computer network, such as local area network (LAN) or
Wide area network (WAN), WiFi network, blueteeth network or other networks.In addition, network 120 can be it is public (for example, interconnection
Net) and private network combination.
Media player 130 is the calculating equipment with application and display screen.As an example, media player 130 can be with
It is TV.Media player 130 can execute software application and can set with media controller equipment 102A, media controller
Standby 102B and server 110 are communicated.It may include any number of alternative or additional network, service in system 100
Device, service, mobile device or equipment.
Fig. 2 is the block diagram that can be used to the system of remote media control.System 200 may include equipment 102a and
Media player 130.Equipment 102a may include delivering transmitter (cast sender) 202.Media player 130 can wrap
It includes and delivers receiver 230.Equipment 102a and media player 130 pass through at least one network of network 120 such as shown in FIG. 1
It is interconnected.The delivery transmitter 202 of equipment 102a may include delivering controller 204 and delivery transmitter transmission channel 206.
The delivery receiver 230 of media player 130 may include content renderer 232 and elements browser 240.In some embodiment party
In formula, unless the context except browser 240 or alternatively, system 200 can be used the machine (native) application and (not show
There is provided remote media control out).Content renderer 232 may include media player activity 234, may include script bank
236 and deliver receiver script bank 238.Elements browser 240 may include assembling service 242 and connection service 244.
Assemble the first application of such as web application that service 242 can be run on equipment 102a and is broadcast in such as media
It puts and establishes connection between the second application run in another equipment of device 130.Second run on media player 130 answers
With request can be sent to load given web application for example in elements browser 240.Web application can infuse its own
Connection service 244 of the volume to the connection request for waiting the second application.In connection request, connection service 244 send information with
Creation transmission connection 210 (such as websocket connection or the customization realized on TLS/TCP between first and second applications
Transmission).The web, which is applied, to be connected with second using the transmission for going to assembly service 242 is opened, and is existed using transmission connection 210
Data are forwarded between them.Web is applied and second sends and receives media content using agreement using transmission connection 210.
Deliver script bank 238 can be with connect service 244 libraries such as JAVASCRIPT that interact or
The script bank in the library OAuthService.Deliver receiver script bank 238 using from connection service 244 new connection request and
The new websocket connection for assembling service 242 is gone in creation.The set that NameSpace can be used as identifier is operated.
NameSpace can provide the mode for avoiding element term conflict.For example, having identical when being directed to element definition NameSpace
All daughter elements of prefix are all associated with the identical NameSpace.Particular namespaces pair can be based on by assembling service 242
Business is routed to be used to voluntarily be handled by the delivery receiver 230, and not by script bank 236 or delivers receiver foot
The processing of this library 238.Data can also be combined according to NameSpace or divide by delivering receiver script bank 238.If NameSpace
Particular namespaces, then deliver receiver script bank 238 can send the data to such as script bank 236 specific to interior
The script bank of appearance.
Script bank 236 can be the library JAVASCRIPT, connect provided by the delivery receiver script bank 238 via lower layer
It connects and data grouping is sent to media controller and receives from it data grouping.Data grouping can meet specific agreement.
Data grouping for example may include metadata, such as define how the content metadata for visually indicating content.Script bank 236
Data grouping it can execute media action based on the received.Script bank 236 can also from web application receive notice and
The notice is sent to the media controller of such as equipment 102.The notice for example may include the notice about vision content,
Such as the pop-up window of coming media program display notice.Content renderer 232 can to media action and plus
Close media extension is handled.
Fig. 3 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.As shown in figure 3, user interface 300 can
With such as web browser that is displayed in the media controller equipment of such as computer using upper.Such media control
Device equipment another example is described by Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 and the equipment 102a that shows.User can choose icon 310 will be clear
The label of device look at is delivered to one in multiple media players of such as TV, for example, " household rooms ", " living room " or
" other equipment ".In some embodiments, user can choose " other equipment " and can input related to another equipment
Information, another equipment such as can receive another media player of such as content of browser label.According to various realities
Mode is applied, different types of content can be presented in different types of media player.For example, as an example, a kind of media play
Device may be configured to that premium content is presented, and another media player, which can be configured as, is presented the interior of real-time cameras capture
Hold, and another media player may be configured to that still photo is presented.It is, of course, understood that single medium plays
Various types of content can also be presented in device.List, which can be shown, currently to be presented or is being mentioned by other media players
The each media content supplied.For example, " household rooms " " play: stream TV programme " dog " ".When selection graphic user interface
When element 320, such as being discussed more fully below in relation to Fig. 4, user be can change at another media player
The content of the media content presented.
Fig. 4 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.User interface dialog 402 can wrap
Include various graphical user-interface elements.As shown in figure 4, user can choose graphical user-interface element 410 suspend by
Media content provided by media player 412 (for example, TV in " household rooms ") (for example, stream TV programme " dog ").
Media player 412 for example can be media player 130 as illustrated in fig. 1 and 2.User can choose graphic user interface member
Element 420 adjusts the volume of the media content as provided by media player 412.Alternatively or in addition to this, user
Select graphical user-interface element 430 with the media content on " stopping playing " media player 412.
Fig. 5 is the example user interface that can be used to remote media control.For example, user interface shown in fig. 5
300 can be the example of the user interface as shown by media controller, shown in described all Fig. 1 and 2 in this way of media controller
Equipment 102a.User interface 300 can be for example presented by web browser application or mobile application.Media player 412 is for example
It can be media player 130 shown in Fig. 1 and 2.User may want to will be in the user interface 300 of media controller
Appearance is shipped to media player 412.As shown in figure 5, user can choose the graphical user-interface element 510 of user interface 300
Carry out the media player of " being delivered to the label " such as media player 412, for example to make " outdoor scene " image transform
" dog " program performed on " household rooms ".In selection, content shown in user interface 300 is (for example, " outdoor scene " figure
Picture) it can be presented in the media player.
Fig. 6 is the flow chart that can be utilized to implement the process of remote media control.Illustrated processing can be down in Fig. 6
Small part is executed by the computing system for example shown in Fig. 2 for delivering transmitter 202, such as can be Universal Remote.With
Family interface can be presented based on the metamessage dynamic that the content being currently played by media player is supplied.User interface can
To include the content source of the information about content, the information such as title, program length or such as website or stream service.
User interface can also include the list or set of one or more useable mediums operation, and the media action is such as loaded, broadcast
Put, suspend, stopping, F.F., at a slow speed, delete or user can be applied to other controls of content.Different media players
It can have and operated specific to the different useable mediums of the media player or the media player type.Therefore, media are come from
The command messages of controller equiment can also depend on the operational set that can be used for certain types of media player.For example, by
The media player for being customized to display still photo is different from can have for media player customized in TV programme
Useable medium operation, and each can have from be customized for play the media player of audio file it is different can
Use media manipulation.Certain form of media player may for example not supported to search for or suspend content.
As shown in fig. 6, system can position the available of media player 130 shown in one or more such as Fig. 1 and 2
Media player (602).The system can then be attached with the receiver of useable medium player and recognize it
It demonstrate,proves (604).The system can obtain the metamessage about any media for playing (current) by useable medium player
(606).For example, the system can obtain the member of the program such as just played on useable medium player, the section destination locations
Information, or such as define how the other metamessages for the content metadata for visually indicating content.This can be used in the system
Metamessage is presented the set (608) of the control or operation supported by useable medium player.For example, and not all media all
Search can be supported even to suspend.In this case, the example for controlling set may include playing and stopping.The system can
To generate one or more requests (610) based on the control supported by useable medium player, for example, receiving user couple
After one selection in control in user interface.The request can be explained by the code specific to application based on volume
Range code generates response.The code specific to application can be with the general orders language pair as specified by delivery transmitter 202
The response is formatted.
Fig. 7 is the flow chart that can be used to the process of remote media control.Illustrated process can be down in Fig. 7
Partially executed by the computing system for example shown in Fig. 2 for delivering transmitter 202.As shown in fig. 7, such as media controller
The equipment (for example, delivering transmitter 202) of equipment can provide public via the application in the media controller equipment
(common) user interface (702).The example of common user interface is described above for Fig. 3-5.As one
Example, common user interface can be user interface 300 shown in Fig. 3.As another example, common user interface can be
Interface dialog box 402 shown in Fig. 4.Common user interface can be independently of the application specific to platform.Specific to answering for platform
Example includes the specific names brand of web browser or the machine is applied or the specific names brand of mobile application, described
The machine that the machine application such as only works on the specific operation system or platform being installed in the media controller equipment
Using.As an example, the common user interface can be operated via various types of web browsers, or by including
It is operated on various operating systems performed by various types of calculating equipment of mobile device or platform.Therefore, the system
The control to remote media content can be provided for multiple users, multiple platforms and multiple equipment via the common user interface
System.
The media controller equipment can be used the common user interface and generate command messages (710).The process can wrap
It includes to media player and command messages (712) is provided.In some embodiments, which may include based on the command messages
Media content is loaded into media player (714).
The command messages are sent to media player from media controller equipment.In some embodiments, the order
Message is JSON format.In some embodiments, which generates the response from media player, and the response passes through
By using cmd_id field and associated with order.The space id can be managed by media controller equipment.The media control
Device equipment processed may determine whether any duplicate obvious cmd_id.If the order does not generate response, the cmd_
Id field can be set to 0.
The media controller equipment can be from media player receipt status notification (720).The state notifying is and media
Content correlation or time-sensitive information relevant to the metadata for being associated with the content.The state notifying for example may include working as
Preceding media state or medium position, the volume status and broadcast state (722) of such as media content.In some embodiments,
The command messages and state notifying include the NameSpace and message payload (724) for being represented as two element script arrays.
The payload can be real data included in message.When the real data is represented as two element script arrays,
It can be ranked up with specific arrangements, " such as [NameSpace], [message payload] ".The data may have other arrangements
It and in various embodiments also may include additional data.Media controller equipment can in response to the state notifying and
Send additional command messages (730).
In some embodiments, it can realize that media player and media controller are set by using STATUS message
Media time between standby is synchronous.When controller receives the STATUS message with effective present field, when to media
Between be adjusted to match with what the message was reported.If time_progress field in the message have value be very,
The time source being then able to use in media controller equipment extrapolates to the local media time.
The example of command messages includes to different useable medium players (for example, it may be possible in another room in house
Between in media player) deliver media content (for example, film), stop or pause play on computers media content,
It increases or reduces the volume of media content, search the intracorporal specific position of plain matchmaker, navigated, changed between the item in broadcasting queue
It changes voice rail, setting title etc..The example of state notifying includes current media state or medium position.
In some embodiments, which may include the receipt status notification at the second media controller equipment, and
And send new command messages from the second media controller equipment for the media player, wherein the command messages be using
Common user interface is inputted from the second media controller equipment.
In some embodiments, which uses common protocol.In some embodiments, common user circle
Face allows to select the media player from multiple media players.In some embodiments, such as above with respect to Fig. 4-6 institute
It shows, which provides the selection (for example, to deliver which TV programme, video etc.) to media content.
In some embodiments, the application for providing common user interface is browser application.Such as it is discussed above with respect to Fig. 4-6
, which may include for controlling the option of media content (for example, pause, F.F., change, stopping, refunding
Deng).
In some embodiments, the media track in Current Content is used to lower data structure and is described.Such as with
Shown by lower, which may include the content metadata for defining how visually to indicate the content, such as " id ",
" selected ", " type " or other metadata.Example as discussed below can be at least partly real by the system institute of such as Fig. 1
It is existing.
ID is unique in the range of single content.ID does not change during the life cycle of play session.
Type: the type of track is identified.The type supported includes subtitle, closed caption, audio and video.If content
Only video and audio comprising a track or type can not can be carried out user's selection, then these tracks can not be returned.
Name: human readable track description.This for example can be retouching for audio track or alternative audio track
It states.Name field can be specified language (language of track given by ISO-628 code) in language field.
Selected: whether instruction track is currently used for by the media play of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1
Device plays out.The field can be modified by SELECT_TRACKS order.
Represented by player status is by following JSON object, used by various other message.
Sequence number is used to identify state received by the response from the set (LOAD, PLAY etc.) for being directed to available action
Event, and the relative position for those of receiving state event is updated from unsolicited status.When state event is from operation
When response is received, sequence number is less than received any state event energy of the sequence number of the state event of the response
Enough it is ignored.
state:
0=IDLE
1=STOPPED
2=PLAYING
If broadcast state is IDLE, all fields other than sequence and mistake can be ignored.
Content_id: this is in currently being loaded by the media player of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1
The identifier specific to service held.Content_id can be the character string of free form and specific in media player
The application operated on 130.
Title: the descriptive title of content.The media player of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1 is able to use
Content_id independently obtains title or its and can be provided in LOAD message by media controller equipment.
Time_progress: whether instruction media time is carrying out.If value is vacation, such as media controller is set
The media controller equipment of standby 102A can stop media time of extrapolating.This independently of media player 130 state, because of matchmaker
The body time can stop in any state.
Current_time: the current location that media player 130 has started since content, in seconds.If
This is the live streaming flow content identified using the empty duration, then the field identification can be obtained from media player 130
The time in seconds that the event known has started.
Duration: the field indicates the duration of currently played stream in seconds.If stream is live stream,
Then the field is sky.
Volume: the field indicates current volume level such as the value between 0.0 and 1.0.
Content_info: the field includes the object specific to service, can be used to about currently by matchmaker
The more deep information for the content that body controller equiment 102A is controlled.The initial value of the field can be set by media controller
Standby 102A is provided in LOAD message.It is not necessary to modify the objects for the media player of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1
Content provides the logic information obtained from media player 130.
Error: error object returns to media player 130 since newest control has operated the newest mistake encountered.Such as
Fruit does not encounter mistake, then it can be arranged to null value.
Error Domain:Error Domain is for isolating erroneous, so that using the mistake that can return to their own.
Error Code: specific to the error code in domain.
STATUS: the state for the content that the command request currently plays in media player 130.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>
"type":"INFO",
}
Response:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
LOAD: the order is used to for new content being loaded into media player 130.<content id>field includes
Need to be loaded into the mark of the content among media player 130.The format of the field is by application and 130 institute of media player
Definition.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"LOAD",
"src":"<content id>",//optional
"title":<string>,//optional
"autoplay":true|false,//optional,default false
"content_info:{...}//optional
}
Response:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
If specifying automatic play parameter, media player 130 can be played out it when content is loaded.
Even if automatic play is not designated, the embodiment of media player 130, which also can choose, to be immediately begun to play.If played
Start, then the player status in response can be arranged to PLAYING, and otherwise it can be set to STOPPED.
Title field provides the readable descriptive character string of user alternatively for the content loaded.If by
It provides, then the character string can be used as each STATUS object transmitted by the media player 130 by media player 130
The initial value of title field.Regardless of whether providing title in LOAD message, media player 130 can be when any
Point modifies title based on the logic of media player 130.
Content_info field may include the JSON provided about the relevant more deep information of institute's loading content
Object, such as id, the collection number of TV service etc..If be provided, content_info object is used as each STATUS
The initial value of the content_info field of message.When media player 130 freely in office can put modification content_
info。
PLAY: this starts to play the broadcasting position for calling loaded content or the currently-loaded content of change with load
It sets.If location field is not designated, broadcasting continues from current location.In if provided position is in current
Except the active position range of appearance, then media player 130 can pick up the active position for being as closely as possible to requested position.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"PLAY",
"position":<double>,//optional,seconds since beginning of content
}
Response:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
STOP
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
If automatic play parameter is designated, media player can when content is loaded broadcasting content.Various
In embodiment, even if automatic play is not designated, media player 130 can also immediately begin to play.If broadcasting is opened
Begin, then 130 state of media player in response can be arranged to PLAYING, and otherwise it can be set to STOPPED.
Title field provides the readable descriptive character string of user alternatively for the content loaded.If by
It provides, then the character string can be used as each STATUS object transmitted by the media player 130 by media player 130
The initial value of title field.Regardless of whether providing title in LOAD message, media player 130 can be when any
Point modifies title based on the logic of media player 130.
Content_info field may include the JSON object for providing the more deep information about institute's loading content,
Id, collection number or the other information of such as TV service.If be provided, content_info object is used as each
The initial value of the content_info field of STATUS message.When media player 130 freely in office can put modification
content_info。
PLAY: this starts to play the broadcasting position for calling loaded content or the currently-loaded content of change with load
It sets.If location field is not designated, broadcasting continues from current location.In if provided position is in current
Except the active position range of appearance, then media player 130 can pick up the active position for being as closely as possible to requested position.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"PLAY",
"position":<double>,//optional,seconds since beginning of content
Response:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
STOP
This halts playback of the current content.There is no distinction
between stopping and pausing content.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":0,
"type":"STOP",
}
Stopping content can be for all controllers triggering STATUS event notice.
VOLUME: volume is set at the output of equipment
Request:
{
"cmd_id":0,
"type":"VOLUME",
"volume":<double>,//0.0--1.0
"muted":<boolean>//True to mute audio
}
Audio volume level can be varied in the case where mute be activated.New audio volume level is mute banned
Used time is applied.
Volume change can be directed to all media of such as media controller equipment 102A and media controller equipment 102B
Controller equiment triggers STATUS event notice.
SELECT_TRACKS: the media track that selection player should use.
Request:
{
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"SELECT_TRACKS",
"enabled":[//optional list of tracks to enable
<int>,<int>...
],
"disabled":[//optional list of tracks to disable
<int>,<int>,...}
Response:
{
]
"cmd_id":<int ID>,
"type":"RESPONSE",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
SELECT_TRACKS order is used to enable or disable media track.Track from TRACKS data object by being obtained
The trackID obtained is identified.Media controller equipment 102A and media controller equipment 102B, which is checked, comes from media player 130
Response whether be actually enabled or disabled with the requested track of determination.In some instances, for example, if media player
130 once do not support more than one audio stream, then media player 130 may can not be enabled and be asked by local conditional
The track asked.
Modifying selected track can be for such as media controller equipment 102A's and media controller equipment 102B
All media controller equipment triggering STATUS event notices.
Player Status Events: the data of the event include the broadcast state event knot with following data field
Structure:
Event:
{
"cmd_id":0,
"type":"STATUS",
"status":<player status object>,//See Player Status
}
Media player 130 can in media player 130 existence convert whenever send out STATUS
Message.In addition, media player 130 can send out regularly update with the second screen application synchronous regime.
Media time can be based on local clock by media controller equipment 102A and update outside progress from newest STATUS
It pushes away.If the current_time that STATUS message is reported does not match with what is locally extrapolated, the local media time
The value being updated in STATUS message.
The media that the media player of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1 can be reported AV system in local
Time is compared with local system clock.If local zone time too far, can be generated away from the media time drift reported
New STATUS event.
Player Key Request Events: in order to implement permission agreement, which can will be from CDM's
Code key request is forwarded to media controller equipment 102A to obtain effective token.The token is returned to media controller equipment
102A and can request license when send out.In alternative embodiment, which can directly return to license.
Fig. 8, which is illustrated, can be used to implement the calculating equipment of technology as described herein and showing for mobile computing device
Example.It calculates equipment 800 and is intended to indicate that various forms of digital computers, such as laptop computer, desktop computer, work
It stands, personal digital assistant, server, blade server, host and other suitable computers, for example, they are described herein
Some embodiments in be used as the media player of media player 130 such as shown in FIG. 1.Calculate equipment 850
It is intended to indicate that various forms of mobile devices, such as personal digital assistant, cellular phone, smart phone and other similar meters
Calculate equipment.Components shown here, its connection and relationship and its function are meant only to carry out example, and are not intended to this
Described in text and/or the embodiment of claimed invention is limited.
Equipment 800 is calculated to include processor 802, memory 804, storage equipment 806, be connected to memory 804 and high speed
The high-speed interface 808 of ECP Extended Capabilities Port 810 and the low-speed interface 812 for being connected to low speed bus 814 and storage equipment 806.Component
802, it each of 804,806,808,810 and 812 is interconnected using various buses, and may be mounted at public mainboard
On, or be attached with other suitable way.Processor 802 is capable of handling for calculating the instruction executed in equipment 800,
Including the instruction being stored in memory 804 or in storage equipment 806, in the display for being such as coupled to high-speed interface 808
Display is used for the graphical information of GUI on 816 external input/output device.In other embodiments, can suitably with it is more
A memory is used together multiple processors and/or multiple buses with multiple memorizers.Moreover, multiple calculating equipment 800 can be with
It is connected, wherein each equipment provides a part of necessary operation (for example, as server group, blade server grouping or more
Processor system).
Memory 804 stores the information calculated in equipment 800.In one embodiment, memory 804 is one or more
A volatile memory cell.In another embodiment, memory 804 is one or more non-volatile memory cells.One
In a little embodiments, memory includes the group for example above with respect to volatile and non-volatile memory cell described in Fig. 3
It closes.Memory 804 can also be the computer-readable medium of other forms, such as disk or CD.
Storage equipment 806 can provide massive store to calculate equipment 800.In one embodiment, equipment is stored
806 can be or may include computer-readable medium, such as floppy device, hard disc apparatus, compact disk equipment, carrying device, flash
Memory or other similar solid storage devices or equipment array, including setting in storage area network or other configurations
It is standby.Computer program product can be realized visibly in the information carrier.The computer program product also may include instruction,
Described instruction executes all one or more methods as described above upon being performed.The information carrier is computer or machine
Device readable medium, such as memory 804, storage equipment 806, the memory on processor 802.
High-speed controller 808 manages the bandwidth-intensive operations for calculating equipment 800, and low speed controller 812 manages
Lower bandwidth-intensive operations.Such function distribution is merely exemplary.In one embodiment, high-speed controller
808 are coupled to memory 804, display 816 (for example, by graphics processor or accelerator), and are coupled to acceptable each
The high-speed expansion ports 810 of kind expansion card (not shown).In said embodiment, low speed controller 812 is coupled to storage and sets
Standby 806 and low-speed expansion bus 814.It may include various communication port (for example, USB, bluetooth, Ethernet, wireless ethernet)
Low-speed expansion bus 814 can be coupled to one or more input-output apparatus, such as keyboard, indicating equipment, scanner, or
Person for example passes through the networked devices of such as interchanger and router of network adapter.
As shown, calculating equipment 800 can realize in various different formats.For example, it can be implemented as standard clothes
It is engaged in device 820, or is many times realized with server as one group.It is also implemented as rack server system
824 a part.In addition, it can also be realized in such as personal computer of laptop computer 822.Alternatively, it comes from
The component for calculating equipment 800 can be combined with other components in the mobile device (not shown) of such as equipment 850.It is such
Each of equipment may include it is one or more calculate equipment 800,850, and whole system can be communicated with one another by multiple
Equipment 800,850 is calculated to constitute.
Among other components, calculating equipment 850 includes processor 852, memory 864, such as display 854 is defeated
Enter/output equipment, communication interface 866 and transceiver 868.Such as microdrive or other equipment can also be provided in equipment 850
Equipment is stored to provide additional storage.Each of component 850,852,864,854,866 and 868 is carried out using various buses
Interconnection, and several in component mountable are attached on public mainboard or with other suitable way.
Processor 852 is able to carry out the instruction calculated in equipment 850, including the instruction being stored in memory 864.It is described
Processor can be implemented as include the chip of discrete multiple analog- and digital- processors chipset.For example, the processor
It can provide the coordination of other components of equipment 850, the control of such as user interface, the application run by equipment 850 and pass through
The wireless communication that equipment 850 carries out.
Processor 852 by control interface 858 and can be coupled to the display interface of display 854 and user is led to
Letter.Display 854 for example can be TFT LCD (Thin Film Transistor-LCD) display or OLED (organic light-emitting diodes
Pipe) display or other display technologies appropriate.Display interface 856 may include for driving the appropriate of display 854
Circuit to show graphical information and other information to user.Control interface 858 can be received from user and be ordered, and be carried out to it
Conversion to processor 852 for being submitted.Furthermore, it is possible to provide the external interface 862 communicated with processor 852, from
And equipment 850 is enabled to carry out near region field communication with other equipment.For example, external interface 862 in some embodiments may be used
Wire communication is provided, or provides wireless communication in other embodiments, and multiple interfaces can also be used.
Memory 864 stores the information calculated in equipment 850.Memory 864 may be implemented as one or more calculating
Machine readable medium, one or more volatile memory-elements or one or more Nonvolatile memery units.It can also be with
Extended menory 874 is provided, equipment 850 is simultaneously connected to by expansion interface 872, for example, the expansion interface 872 can be with
Including SIMM (single-in-line memory module) card interface.Such extended menory 874 can provide additional deposit for equipment 850
Space is stored up, or the application for equipment 850 or other information can also be stored.Specifically, extended menory 874 may include
Instruction to perform or supplement the processing described above, and can also include security information.For example, extended menory 874 by
This is provided as the security module of equipment 850, and using allowing the instruction used safely to equipment 850 to carry out
Programming.In addition, security application can be provided together with additional information via SIMM card, it will such as in a manner of it can not be destroyed by hacker
Identification information is placed on SIMM card.
For example, as described below, the memory may include flash memory and/or non-volatile random access
Memory (NVRAM memory).In one embodiment, computer program product is visibly realized in the information carrier.Institute
Stating computer program product also may include instruction, and described instruction executes all one or more as described above upon being performed
Method.The information carrier is computer-readable or machine readable media, such as memory 864, extended menory 874 or
Memory on processor 852 can be for example received by transceiver 868 or external interface 862.
Equipment 850 can be carried out wireless communication by communication interface 866, and when necessary, the communication interface 866 includes
Digital signal processing circuit.Communication interface 866 can provide communication under various modes or protocols, and the mode or agreement are such as
GSM audio call, SMS, EMS or MMS message transmission, CDMA, TDMA, PDC, WCDMA, CDMA2000 or GPRS and other.
For example, communication can be occurred by RF transceiver 868 in this way.In addition, such as bluetooth, WiFi or other are such can be used to receive
It sends out device (not shown) and carries out short range communication.In addition, GPS (global positioning system) receiver module 870 can provide for equipment 850
Additional navigation correlation and location-related wireless data, can suitably be used by the application program run in equipment 850.
Equipment 850 also carries out audible communication using audio codec 860, and the reception of audio codec 860 comes from
The speech information of user and it is converted into available digital information.Audio codec 860 equally can be such as by raising
Audible sound is generated for user in sound device, such as in the earpiece of equipment 850.Such sound may include exhaling from voice call
The sound cried may include the sound (for example, speech message, music file etc.) recorded, and can also include in equipment 850
Operation using sound generated.
As shown, calculating equipment 850 can realize in a multitude of different ways.For example, it can be implemented as honeycomb electricity
Words 880.Its a part for being also implemented as smart phone 882, personal digital assistant or other similar mobile devices.
The various embodiments of system and technology as described herein can be with digital circuit, integrated circuit, special design
ASIC (specific integrated circuit), computer hardware, firmware, software, and/or a combination thereof realize.These various embodiments
It may include embodiments in one or more computer programs, the computer program can be programmable including at least one
Execute and/or explain on the programmable system of processor, the programmable system can be it is dedicated or general, be coupled as from depositing
Storage equipment, at least one input equipment and at least one output equipment receive data and instruction and transmit data to it and refer to
It enables.
These computer programs (also referred to as program, software, software application or code) include for programmable processor
Machine instruction, and can be come with advanced programs and/or object-oriented programming languages and/or be realized with compilation/machine language.
As used herein, term " machine readable media ", " computer-readable medium " refer to for providing to programmable processor
Any computer program product of machine instruction and/or data, device and/or equipment (for example, disk, CD, memory, can
Programmed logic device PLD) comprising receive machine instruction machine readable medium as a machine-readable signal." machine can for term
Read signal " refers to that being utilized for programmable processor provides the arbitrary signal of machine instruction and/or data.
In order to provide the interaction with user, system and technology as described herein can have for showing information to user
Display equipment (for example, CRT (cathode-ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor) and user can by its for calculate
Machine provides to be realized on the keyboard of input and the computer of indicating equipment (for example, mouse or trackball).Also other classes can be used
The equipment of type provides the interaction with user；For example, the feedback for being supplied to user can be any form of sense feedback (example
Such as, visual feedback, audio feedback or touch feedback)；And input from the user can be received with arbitrary form, including sound
Sound, speech or tactile input.
System and technology as described herein can realize that the computing system includes aft-end assembly (example in computing systems
Such as data server) perhaps it include middleware component (such as application server) or it include that front end assemblies (such as have
The graphic user interface or web for having user that can interact by the embodiment of itself and system as described herein and technology
The client computer of browser) or these rear ends, middleware or front end assemblies any combination.The component of the system
It can be interconnected by the digital data communications (such as communication network) of arbitrary form or medium.The example of communication network includes office
Domain net (" LAN "), wide area network (" WAN ") and internet.
The computing system may include client and server.Client and server is generally remote from each other and typical case
Ground is interacted by communication network.The relationship of client and server is by operation on corresponding computer and has each other
Client-server relation computer program and generate.
Multiple embodiments are described.Nevertheless, it will be understood that various changes can be carried out and do not carried on the back
From the spirit and scope of the present invention.
In addition, in figure discribed logic flow do not require that shown particular order or consecutive order to realize the phase
The result of prestige.It is furthermore possible to also provide other steps or the removal process from described process, and can be to described system
System adds other components or removes components from it.Therefore, other embodiments come within the scope of the following claims.
Claims (19)
1. a kind of for providing the method for remote media control, comprising:
The finger for the process content at the media player is received from the first media controller equipment at media player
It enables；
The first command messages for being used for the media player, first order are received from the first media controller equipment
Message is to be inputted using the user interface of the first media controller equipment from the first media controller equipment；
Send what the useable medium for handling the content operated from the media player to the second media controller equipment
Set；
It is received at the media player from the second media controller equipment and uses the second media controller equipment
User interface generate the second command messages, the set that second command messages are operated based on the useable medium；
In response to receiving second command messages, change the media player state of the media player；
It will include the state notifying of time-sensitive information from the media player in response to changing the media player state
It is sent to the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment,
The state notifying triggers the media player and the first media controller equipment and second media control
The state synchronized of device equipment, and
The media player is configured as being received simultaneously from the first media controller equipment and the second media control
The command messages of device equipment processed；And
In response to the state notifying from the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment to
Few one receives additional command messages.
2. according to the method described in claim 1, further comprising:
It receives from least one of the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment for described
The new command messages of media player, wherein the command messages are to use the first media controller equipment or described
The respective user interfaces input of second media controller equipment.
3. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, first command messages and second command messages are based on public affairs
Agreement is total to define.
4. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, the media player is configured to export at least one concrete type
Content.
5. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, the user interface of the first media controller equipment and described
The user interface permission of second media controller equipment selects the media player from multiple media players.
6. according to the method described in claim 1, further comprising:
It would define how to indicate that the content metadata of the content is sent to the first media control from the media player
At least one of device equipment and the second media controller equipment.
7. according to the method described in claim 5, wherein, the user interface of the first media controller equipment and described
The user interface of second media controller equipment allows input of the user to another media player.
8. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, first command messages and second command messages are based on described
The set for the operation that the specific type of media player is supported.
9. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, the state notifying includes the volume status and broadcasting shape of the content
State.
10. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein first command messages, second command messages and the shape
State notice includes the NameSpace and message payload for being represented as two element script arrays.
11. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein, the user interface of the first media controller equipment and institute
The user interface for stating the second media controller equipment includes option for controlling the content, and the option includes stopping
Or the pause content, the volume for increasing or reducing the content, search in the content specific position, playing queue
In project between navigated, change audio track or for the curriculum offering title.
12. a kind of method for using remote media control, comprising:
Command messages are received from the first media controller equipment via the service in the browser of media player；
Based on the command messages in the media player presentation content；
While the content is presented, state notifying is provided from the media player and is set to first media controller
It is standby；
While the content is presented, the state notifying including time-sensitive information is provided to second from the media player
Media controller equipment；
The state notifying triggers the media player and the first media controller equipment and second media control
The state synchronized of device equipment,
The media player is configured as being received simultaneously from the first media controller equipment and the second media control
The command messages of device equipment processed, and
The command messages are configured as controlling broadcasting of the content on the media player based on the state notifying；
In response to the state notifying from the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment to
Few one receives additional command messages；
In response to receiving the additional command messages, change the media player state of the media player；
In response to changing the media player state, first media are sent from the media player by state notifying
Controller equiment and the second media controller equipment.
13. according to the method for claim 12, wherein the command messages are defined based on common protocol.
14. according to the method for claim 12, further comprising:
The first user interface is provided via the first media controller equipment；And
Second user interface is provided via the second media controller equipment.
15. according to the method for claim 14, wherein first user interface and the second user interface independently of
The application specific to platform installed in the media controller equipment.
16. according to the method for claim 14, wherein first user interface and the second user interface allow from
The media player is selected in multiple media players.
17. according to the method for claim 14, further comprising:
The option for controlling the content is shown in first user interface and the second user interface.
18. a kind of non-transient computer readable storage medium including instruction, described instruction by system when being executed, so that institute
State system:
The finger for the process content at the media player is received from the first media controller equipment at media player
It enables；
The first command messages for being used for the media player, first order are received from the first media controller equipment
Message is to be inputted using the user interface of the first media controller equipment from the first media controller equipment；
The content metadata for defining how to indicate the content is sent from the media player to the second media controller equipment
And the set of the useable medium operation for handling the content；
The second command messages are received from the second media controller equipment at the media player, second order disappears
Breath is generated using the user interface of the second media controller equipment, and second command messages can use matchmaker based on described
The set that gymnastics is made；
In response to receiving second command messages, change the media player state of the media player；
It will include the state notifying of time-sensitive information from the media player in response to changing the media player state
It is sent to the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment,
The state notifying triggers the media player and the first media controller equipment and second media control
The state synchronized of device equipment, and
The media player is configured as being received simultaneously from the first media controller equipment and the second media control
The command messages of device equipment processed；And
In response to the state notifying from the first media controller equipment and the second media controller equipment to
Few one receives additional command messages.
19. non-transient computer readable storage medium according to claim 18, wherein first media controller
The user interface of the user interface of equipment and the second media controller equipment allows from multiple media players
Select the media player.
Priority Applications (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811631041.5A CN110087112B (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | Method, system and storage medium for remote media control |
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201361823016P | 2013-05-14 | 2013-05-14 | |
US61/823,016 | 2013-05-14 | ||
US14/272,300 | 2014-05-07 | ||
US14/272,300 US10031647B2 (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-07 | System for universal remote media control in a multi-user, multi-platform, multi-device environment |
PCT/US2014/037282 WO2014186206A1 (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | System for universal remote media control in a multi-user, multi-platform, multi-device environment |
Related Child Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811631041.5A Division CN110087112B (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | Method, system and storage medium for remote media control |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105264902A CN105264902A (en) | 2016-01-20 |
CN105264902B true CN105264902B (en) | 2019-01-15 |
Family
ID=51896838
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201480027596.2A Active CN105264902B (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | For multi-user, the system of multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment Universal Remote media control |
CN201811631041.5A Active CN110087112B (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | Method, system and storage medium for remote media control |
Family Applications After (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811631041.5A Active CN110087112B (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2014-05-08 | Method, system and storage medium for remote media control |
Country Status (5)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (4) | US10031647B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP2997737A1 (en) |
KR (1) | KR102134362B1 (en) |
CN (2) | CN105264902B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2014186206A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (73)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US11106425B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2021-08-31 | Sonos, Inc. | Synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices |
US8086752B2 (en) | 2006-11-22 | 2011-12-27 | Sonos, Inc. | Systems and methods for synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices that independently source digital data |
US8290603B1 (en) | 2004-06-05 | 2012-10-16 | Sonos, Inc. | User interfaces for controlling and manipulating groupings in a multi-zone media system |
US11106424B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2021-08-31 | Sonos, Inc. | Synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices |
US11294618B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2022-04-05 | Sonos, Inc. | Media player system |
US8234395B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2012-07-31 | Sonos, Inc. | System and method for synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices |
US9207905B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2015-12-08 | Sonos, Inc. | Method and apparatus for providing synchrony group status information |
US11650784B2 (en) | 2003-07-28 | 2023-05-16 | Sonos, Inc. | Adjusting volume levels |
US9977561B2 (en) | 2004-04-01 | 2018-05-22 | Sonos, Inc. | Systems, methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture to provide guest access |
US9374607B2 (en) | 2012-06-26 | 2016-06-21 | Sonos, Inc. | Media playback system with guest access |
US8326951B1 (en) | 2004-06-05 | 2012-12-04 | Sonos, Inc. | Establishing a secure wireless network with minimum human intervention |
US8868698B2 (en) | 2004-06-05 | 2014-10-21 | Sonos, Inc. | Establishing a secure wireless network with minimum human intervention |
US8788080B1 (en) | 2006-09-12 | 2014-07-22 | Sonos, Inc. | Multi-channel pairing in a media system |
US8483853B1 (en) | 2006-09-12 | 2013-07-09 | Sonos, Inc. | Controlling and manipulating groupings in a multi-zone media system |
US9202509B2 (en) | 2006-09-12 | 2015-12-01 | Sonos, Inc. | Controlling and grouping in a multi-zone media system |
US10356195B2 (en) * | 2006-12-29 | 2019-07-16 | Cufer Asset Ltd. L.L.C. | System and method for remote cross platform portable simulcast network |
US11265652B2 (en) | 2011-01-25 | 2022-03-01 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device pairing |
US11429343B2 (en) | 2011-01-25 | 2022-08-30 | Sonos, Inc. | Stereo playback configuration and control |
US9084058B2 (en) | 2011-12-29 | 2015-07-14 | Sonos, Inc. | Sound field calibration using listener localization |
US9729115B2 (en) | 2012-04-27 | 2017-08-08 | Sonos, Inc. | Intelligently increasing the sound level of player |
US9690271B2 (en) | 2012-06-28 | 2017-06-27 | Sonos, Inc. | Speaker calibration |
US9706323B2 (en) | 2014-09-09 | 2017-07-11 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device calibration |
US9668049B2 (en) | 2012-06-28 | 2017-05-30 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device calibration user interfaces |
US9219460B2 (en) | 2014-03-17 | 2015-12-22 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio settings based on environment |
US9690539B2 (en) | 2012-06-28 | 2017-06-27 | Sonos, Inc. | Speaker calibration user interface |
US9106192B2 (en) | 2012-06-28 | 2015-08-11 | Sonos, Inc. | System and method for device playback calibration |
US8930005B2 (en) | 2012-08-07 | 2015-01-06 | Sonos, Inc. | Acoustic signatures in a playback system |
US9008330B2 (en) | 2012-09-28 | 2015-04-14 | Sonos, Inc. | Crossover frequency adjustments for audio speakers |
US10031647B2 (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2018-07-24 | Google Llc | System for universal remote media control in a multi-user, multi-platform, multi-device environment |
US9226073B2 (en) | 2014-02-06 | 2015-12-29 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio output balancing during synchronized playback |
US9226087B2 (en) | 2014-02-06 | 2015-12-29 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio output balancing during synchronized playback |
US9258516B2 (en) * | 2014-03-14 | 2016-02-09 | Tribune Broadcasting Company, Llc | News production system with display controller |
US9264839B2 (en) | 2014-03-17 | 2016-02-16 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device configuration based on proximity detection |
US8995240B1 (en) | 2014-07-22 | 2015-03-31 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback using positioning information |
US10127006B2 (en) | 2014-09-09 | 2018-11-13 | Sonos, Inc. | Facilitating calibration of an audio playback device |
US9910634B2 (en) | 2014-09-09 | 2018-03-06 | Sonos, Inc. | Microphone calibration |
US9952825B2 (en) | 2014-09-09 | 2018-04-24 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio processing algorithms |
US9891881B2 (en) | 2014-09-09 | 2018-02-13 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio processing algorithm database |
WO2016172593A1 (en) | 2015-04-24 | 2016-10-27 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device calibration user interfaces |
US10664224B2 (en) | 2015-04-24 | 2020-05-26 | Sonos, Inc. | Speaker calibration user interface |
US10248376B2 (en) | 2015-06-11 | 2019-04-02 | Sonos, Inc. | Multiple groupings in a playback system |
US9538305B2 (en) | 2015-07-28 | 2017-01-03 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration error conditions |
US9693165B2 (en) | 2015-09-17 | 2017-06-27 | Sonos, Inc. | Validation of audio calibration using multi-dimensional motion check |
EP3531714B1 (en) | 2015-09-17 | 2022-02-23 | Sonos Inc. | Facilitating calibration of an audio playback device |
CN106713799B (en) * | 2015-11-13 | 2020-10-20 | 深圳光峰科技股份有限公司 | Projection equipment control method, projection equipment and intelligent terminal |
US9743207B1 (en) | 2016-01-18 | 2017-08-22 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration using multiple recording devices |
US11106423B2 (en) | 2016-01-25 | 2021-08-31 | Sonos, Inc. | Evaluating calibration of a playback device |
US10003899B2 (en) | 2016-01-25 | 2018-06-19 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration with particular locations |
US9860662B2 (en) | 2016-04-01 | 2018-01-02 | Sonos, Inc. | Updating playback device configuration information based on calibration data |
US9864574B2 (en) | 2016-04-01 | 2018-01-09 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device calibration based on representation spectral characteristics |
US9763018B1 (en) | 2016-04-12 | 2017-09-12 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration of audio playback devices |
US20170324790A1 (en) * | 2016-05-04 | 2017-11-09 | Google Inc. | Methods, systems, and media for presenting a notification of playback availability |
US9860670B1 (en) | 2016-07-15 | 2018-01-02 | Sonos, Inc. | Spectral correction using spatial calibration |
US9794710B1 (en) | 2016-07-15 | 2017-10-17 | Sonos, Inc. | Spatial audio correction |
US10372406B2 (en) | 2016-07-22 | 2019-08-06 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration interface |
US10459684B2 (en) | 2016-08-05 | 2019-10-29 | Sonos, Inc. | Calibration of a playback device based on an estimated frequency response |
US10805358B2 (en) | 2016-10-13 | 2020-10-13 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Universal casting service |
US10712997B2 (en) | 2016-10-17 | 2020-07-14 | Sonos, Inc. | Room association based on name |
US11206484B2 (en) | 2018-08-28 | 2021-12-21 | Sonos, Inc. | Passive speaker authentication |
US10299061B1 (en) | 2018-08-28 | 2019-05-21 | Sonos, Inc. | Playback device calibration |
US11079916B2 (en) * | 2019-01-14 | 2021-08-03 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Multiple source media management |
US10986392B2 (en) * | 2019-06-07 | 2021-04-20 | Charter Communications Operating, Llc | Hybrid IR/RF remote control system |
CN112346754A (en) * | 2019-08-07 | 2021-02-09 | 海信视像科技股份有限公司 | Control method and device for dual-system application upgrading interface display |
US10734965B1 (en) | 2019-08-12 | 2020-08-04 | Sonos, Inc. | Audio calibration of a portable playback device |
US11259348B2 (en) * | 2019-08-14 | 2022-02-22 | Sling Media Pvt. Ltd. | Remote wireless network setup without pairing |
US11265690B2 (en) | 2019-09-13 | 2022-03-01 | Sling Media L.L.C. | Ecosystem-based wireless network setup |
US11893092B2 (en) * | 2020-01-17 | 2024-02-06 | Sony Group Corporation | Privilege auto platform |
WO2021183147A1 (en) | 2020-03-13 | 2021-09-16 | Google Llc | Network-connected television devices with knowledge-based media content recommendations and unified user interfaces |
CN113711617B (en) | 2020-03-13 | 2024-04-02 | 谷歌有限责任公司 | Method and device for projecting media content in networking television device |
CN113422989A (en) * | 2020-03-17 | 2021-09-21 | 中国移动通信集团终端有限公司 | Set top box remote control method, device, equipment and medium based on mobile terminal |
CN112000261B (en) * | 2020-07-23 | 2022-07-01 | 北京达佳互联信息技术有限公司 | Player control method and device, server and electronic equipment |
CN113204656A (en) * | 2021-03-31 | 2021-08-03 | 北京达佳互联信息技术有限公司 | Multimedia resource display method, device, equipment and storage medium |
CN114584822B (en) * | 2022-03-03 | 2023-09-15 | 北京字跳网络技术有限公司 | Synchronous playing method and device, terminal equipment and storage medium |
Citations (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
WO2009113932A1 (en) * | 2008-03-14 | 2009-09-17 | Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) | Method and apparatus for providing end user notification in a upnp network |
CN102473342A (en) * | 2009-06-30 | 2012-05-23 | 联合视频制品公司 | Systems and methods for providing interactive media guidance on a wireless communications device |
Family Cites Families (37)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US1003164A (en) | 1911-09-12 | Frederick S Yoder | Vehicle-jack. | |
US6545587B1 (en) * | 1998-03-06 | 2003-04-08 | Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. | Bidirectional remote control system, bidirectional remote controller, and device controlled by bidirectional remote controller |
US7170422B2 (en) * | 2002-06-24 | 2007-01-30 | Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. | Personal programmable universal remote control |
CN1181650C (en) * | 2002-09-24 | 2004-12-22 | 联想(北京)有限公司 | Equipment for dynamic generating interface of controlling networked information household electrical appliances and its method |
US7246156B2 (en) * | 2003-06-09 | 2007-07-17 | Industrial Defender, Inc. | Method and computer program product for monitoring an industrial network |
US20050013589A1 (en) * | 2003-07-14 | 2005-01-20 | Microsoft Corporation | Adding recording functionality to a media player |
US8234395B2 (en) * | 2003-07-28 | 2012-07-31 | Sonos, Inc. | System and method for synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices |
CN100480962C (en) * | 2003-11-03 | 2009-04-22 | 无极公司 | User interface for multi-device control |
US20050183120A1 (en) * | 2004-01-13 | 2005-08-18 | Saurabh Jain | Multi-user personalized digital multimedia distribution methods and systems |
US9665629B2 (en) * | 2005-10-14 | 2017-05-30 | Yahoo! Inc. | Media device and user interface for selecting media |
US8086332B2 (en) * | 2006-02-27 | 2011-12-27 | Apple Inc. | Media delivery system with improved interaction |
US8054294B2 (en) * | 2006-03-31 | 2011-11-08 | Sony Corporation | Touch screen remote control system for use in controlling one or more devices |
US20080034095A1 (en) * | 2006-08-01 | 2008-02-07 | Motorola, Inc. | Multi-representation media event handoff |
US8589779B2 (en) * | 2007-03-08 | 2013-11-19 | Adobe Systems Incorporated | Event-sensitive content for mobile devices |
US9124845B2 (en) * | 2007-07-19 | 2015-09-01 | At&T Intellectual Property I, L.P. | System and method to control media display functions |
US8693406B2 (en) * | 2007-08-09 | 2014-04-08 | Intel Corporation | Multi-user resource allocation and medium access control (MAC) overhead reduction for mobile worldwide interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX) systems |
US8775647B2 (en) * | 2007-12-10 | 2014-07-08 | Deluxe Media Inc. | Method and system for use in coordinating multimedia devices |
US20090228897A1 (en) * | 2008-03-04 | 2009-09-10 | Murray Frank H | Bidirectional Control of Media Players |
US20100091835A1 (en) * | 2008-10-14 | 2010-04-15 | Morris Robert P | Method And System For Processing A Media Stream |
US8769578B2 (en) * | 2009-06-30 | 2014-07-01 | United Video Properties, Inc. | Systems and methods for providing interactive media guidance on a wireless communications device |
JP5359743B2 (en) | 2009-09-29 | 2013-12-04 | ソニー株式会社 | Remote control device, remote control device system, remote control method and program |
US20110169750A1 (en) * | 2010-01-14 | 2011-07-14 | Continental Automotive Systems, Inc. | Multi-touchpad multi-touch user interface |
CN102236340B (en) * | 2010-04-26 | 2014-12-03 | 北大方正集团有限公司 | Multi-equipment management method and device |
WO2011143403A2 (en) * | 2010-05-12 | 2011-11-17 | Smsc Holdings S.A.R.L. | Systems and methods for operating media devices |
US9786159B2 (en) * | 2010-07-23 | 2017-10-10 | Tivo Solutions Inc. | Multi-function remote control device |
US9264753B2 (en) * | 2010-08-03 | 2016-02-16 | Broadcom Corporation | Method and apparatus for interactive control of media players |
US9762704B2 (en) * | 2010-11-08 | 2017-09-12 | Sony Corporation | Service based media player |
US8904289B2 (en) * | 2011-04-21 | 2014-12-02 | Touchstream Technologies, Inc. | Play control of content on a display device |
WO2012153284A1 (en) * | 2011-05-10 | 2012-11-15 | Nds Limited | Customized zapping |
US20130167028A1 (en) * | 2011-06-01 | 2013-06-27 | Adobe Systems Incorporated | Restricting media content rendering |
WO2012173656A1 (en) * | 2011-06-13 | 2012-12-20 | General Instrument Corporation | A method to query the status of a live tv streaming device |
CN103577163A (en) * | 2012-07-19 | 2014-02-12 | 中兴通讯股份有限公司 | Method and device for realizing multiple user interfaces of mobile terminal |
US8995687B2 (en) * | 2012-08-01 | 2015-03-31 | Sonos, Inc. | Volume interactions for connected playback devices |
AU2013276983B2 (en) * | 2012-12-26 | 2017-05-18 | Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. | Terminal device and method for controlling thereof |
US10031647B2 (en) | 2013-05-14 | 2018-07-24 | Google Llc | System for universal remote media control in a multi-user, multi-platform, multi-device environment |
US9832251B2 (en) * | 2014-05-05 | 2017-11-28 | Sony Mobile Communications Inc. | System and method for content streaming in a network environment |
US9544388B1 (en) * | 2014-05-09 | 2017-01-10 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Client-side predictive caching for content |
-
2014
- 2014-05-07 US US14/272,300 patent/US10031647B2/en active Active
- 2014-05-08 CN CN201480027596.2A patent/CN105264902B/en active Active
- 2014-05-08 EP EP14731444.7A patent/EP2997737A1/en not_active Ceased
- 2014-05-08 WO PCT/US2014/037282 patent/WO2014186206A1/en active Application Filing
- 2014-05-08 KR KR1020157035002A patent/KR102134362B1/en active IP Right Grant
- 2014-05-08 CN CN201811631041.5A patent/CN110087112B/en active Active
-
2018
- 2018-07-20 US US16/041,022 patent/US10572117B2/en active Active
-
2020
- 2020-02-24 US US16/798,991 patent/US10956002B2/en active Active
-
2021
- 2021-03-18 US US17/205,411 patent/US11954306B2/en active Active
Patent Citations (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
WO2009113932A1 (en) * | 2008-03-14 | 2009-09-17 | Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) | Method and apparatus for providing end user notification in a upnp network |
CN102473342A (en) * | 2009-06-30 | 2012-05-23 | 联合视频制品公司 | Systems and methods for providing interactive media guidance on a wireless communications device |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US10956002B2 (en) | 2021-03-23 |
KR102134362B1 (en) | 2020-07-15 |
US20210208756A1 (en) | 2021-07-08 |
US11954306B2 (en) | 2024-04-09 |
CN110087112A (en) | 2019-08-02 |
US10031647B2 (en) | 2018-07-24 |
US20180329594A1 (en) | 2018-11-15 |
US20200192535A1 (en) | 2020-06-18 |
KR20160007594A (en) | 2016-01-20 |
WO2014186206A1 (en) | 2014-11-20 |
CN105264902A (en) | 2016-01-20 |
US20140344689A1 (en) | 2014-11-20 |
US10572117B2 (en) | 2020-02-25 |
EP2997737A1 (en) | 2016-03-23 |
CN110087112B (en) | 2021-09-03 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105264902B (en) | For multi-user, the system of multi-platform, in multi-equipment environment Universal Remote media control | |
US11860938B2 (en) | Play control of content on a display device | |
CN107580783B (en) | Method, system and storage medium for synchronizing media content between different devices | |
US8356251B2 (en) | Play control of content on a display device | |
CA2914564A1 (en) | Systems, methods, and media for presenting media content | |
CN114222190B (en) | Remote control processing and response method and device, equipment, medium and product thereof | |
CN113727177B (en) | Screen-throwing resource playing method and device, equipment and medium thereof | |
CN106603652A (en) | Household music control system and household music playing control method | |
CN117579854A (en) | Live broadcast method, live broadcast device, computer equipment and computer readable storage medium | |
WO2014004430A1 (en) | Virtualized hosting and displaying of content using a swappable media player | |
Kong et al. | Media, Screen, Input, and Context Sharing System for D2D Services in Smart TV 2.0 |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |