CN112204546A - Causal selection preferences - Google Patents
Causal selection preferences Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN112204546A CN112204546A CN201980036699.8A CN201980036699A CN112204546A CN 112204546 A CN112204546 A CN 112204546A CN 201980036699 A CN201980036699 A CN 201980036699A CN 112204546 A CN112204546 A CN 112204546A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- user
- data
- particular user
- display panel
- selection
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Pending
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/953—Querying, e.g. by the use of web search engines
- G06F16/9538—Presentation of query results
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/10—File systems; File servers
- G06F16/14—Details of searching files based on file metadata
- G06F16/156—Query results presentation
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/953—Querying, e.g. by the use of web search engines
- G06F16/9535—Search customisation based on user profiles and personalisation
Abstract
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for accessing data indicative of selection preferences of a particular user; determining a first data set and a second data set of a content item for presentation; generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item; generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item; providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device; providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and receiving data from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel.
Description
Background
User devices provide access to a wide variety of information. For example, digital image files, video and/or audio files, and resources for a particular topic or a particular news article are accessible over the internet. This information may be viewed in a web browser running on the user device and a native application running on the user device. The search engine crawls (crawls) and indexes these resources to facilitate searching of the resources. Thus, there is a large amount of information that is readily available to a user for almost any topic that the user may be interested in.
The search engine may provide the user with content ranked in part according to the user's preferences. Periodically, the search engine provider may wish to evaluate the effectiveness of providing content adjusted in this manner, or may wish to expose the user the ability to provide such adjusted content.
Disclosure of Invention
This specification describes technologies relating to systems and methods for determining selection preferences of a user device. The present subject matter provides an implementation that generates two different display panels to indicate to a particular user the benefits of using a display panel that is customized based on the particular user's selection preferences.
In general, one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of: accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user; determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user; determining, in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item having a ranking in the second data set relative to a ranking enhancement (boost) generated independently of the selection preferences and determined as a content item to be selected by the particular user; generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item; generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item; providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel; providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and receiving data from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems, apparatus, and computer programs, encoded on computer storage devices, configured to perform the actions of the methods.
These and other embodiments may each optionally include one or more of the following features. In some aspects, accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user includes: determining that preference data is available (available) that specifies selection preferences of a particular user; and accessing preference data in response to determining that preference data is available that specifies the selection preferences of the particular user.
In some aspects, accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user includes: determining that preference data specifying the selection preferences of the particular user is unavailable (unavailable) and in response, accessing user activity data from a current user session of the particular user, the user activity data specifying activities of the user; accessing user activity data for user sessions from a plurality of other users; comparing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user with user activity data of a plurality of other users; and generating agent selection preferences for the particular user based on selection preferences of other users whose user activity data meets a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session.
In some aspects, accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user includes: determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is not available and in response, accessing user activity data from a current user session of the particular user, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user; and generating selection data indicating selection preferences of a particular user based on the keywords.
In some aspects, the at least one second content item is determined to be a content item that the particular user will select based on data indicating previous selections of the particular user. In some aspects, determining that the at least one second content item is a content item that the particular user will select is based on data indicating previous selections by other users having respective search histories that satisfy a similarity threshold to the search history of the particular user.
In some aspects, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on location data. In some aspects, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on network history data. In some aspects, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on search history data.
In some aspects, in response to receiving data from the user device indicating selection of the second display panel, providing for display of data to the user device indicating that the second display panel is based on selection preferences of a particular user.
In general, another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a data processing apparatus; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium in data communication with the data processing apparatus and storing instructions executable by the data processing apparatus, and which, when executed, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations. The operations include: accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user; determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user; determining, in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item having in the second data set an enhanced ranking relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preferences and determined as a content item to be selected by the particular user; generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item; generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item; providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel; providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and receiving data from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems, apparatus, and computer programs, encoded on computer storage devices, configured to perform the actions of the methods.
In general, another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a temporary or non-transitory computer storage medium encoded with a computer program that includes instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations. The operations include: accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user; determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user; determining a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item having in the second data set an enhanced ranking relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preferences and determined as a content item to be selected by the particular user; generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item; generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item; providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel; providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and receiving data from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems, apparatus, and computer programs that perform actions configured as methods, encoded on computer storage devices.
Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. In some implementations, the system determines a dataset of content items that depend on the selection preferences of a particular user for presentation to the particular user in the display panel, and determines one or more content items having an enhanced ranking in the dataset relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preferences, where the enhanced ranking can include any changes to the display items. This provides a fast and computationally efficient way of selecting content items for inclusion in the second display panel, while making the second display panel significantly different from the first display panel.
In some implementations, if the system does not have access to the selection preferences of a particular person, the system may access user activity data for a current user session from a particular user, the user activity data specifying activities of the user, and access user activity data for user sessions from a plurality of other users. The system compares user activity data from a current user session of a particular user with user activity data of a plurality of other users, and based on the comparison, generates a proxy selection preference for the particular user based on selection preferences of the other users, the user activity data of the other users satisfying a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session. The threshold may be a fixed threshold or may be an outlier threshold based on motion statistics, e.g., an average percentage from users performing the motion is greater than one standard deviation. This solves the technical problem of providing adjusted data to a user when user preferences are not available or determined to be unsuitable for use with other means for determining adjusted data.
Alternatively, or in addition, in some implementations, technical challenges resulting from a system's inability to access a particular person's selection preferences may also be addressed by accessing user activity data from a particular user's current user session, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user, and generating selection data indicating the particular user's selection preferences based on the keywords.
Using conventional user interfaces, a user may not be aware of the benefits of a customized presentation of the adjusted results of a query based on the user's selection preferences or by accessing user activity data from a particular user's current user session. An efficient user interface enables the user to easily and quickly access the correct data/functionality. The adaptation application of the present system provides two selectable display panels from which the user can select. For example, a first display panel is generated with selection preferences of a particular user, and a second display panel is generated independently of the selection preferences of the particular user. The adjustment application presents the adjusted result elements (e.g., elements based on the selection preferences) to the user in a first display panel and simultaneously displays the unadjusted result elements (e.g., elements not based on the selection preferences) to the user in a second display panel. In addition, the second display panel may highlight the difference between the two panels, making it easier for the user to see the change. Thus, the present system enables a user to easily and quickly access a display panel having a preference for adjusted or unadjusted result elements, particularly on small screen devices.
The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description, the drawings, and the claims.
Drawings
FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an example environment in which a search query evaluation and adjustment system may be implemented.
FIG. 2 is a screenshot illustration of an example user interface presenting a first display panel having adjusted result elements and a second display panel having unadjusted result elements according to a search query.
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram of an example process for using a search query evaluation and adjustment system.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of another example process for using a search query evaluation and adjustment system.
FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of another example process for evaluating and adjusting a system using a search query.
FIG. 6 is a block diagram of an example computer system that may be used to implement the methods, systems, and processes described in this disclosure.
Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements.
Detailed Description
SUMMARY
The technology in this patent application relates to a system and method for generating two different display panels of a content item on a user device, where a first display panel is generated with a selection preference of a particular user and a second display panel is generated independently of the selection preference of the particular user. Two display panels are simultaneously displayed on the user device, where the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of each display panel. Different display panels are generated to indicate to a particular user the benefit of using a display panel that is customized based on the particular user's selection preferences. In some implementations, a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel is received from the user device indicating whether the user prefers a display with or without selection preferences.
The second display panel may include one or more content items. One or more content items may be selected for inclusion in the second display panel based on a number of parameters including, but not necessarily limited to, selection preferences of a particular user. Some selection preferences may have a greater impact on the content items selected for inclusion in the second display panel than others. Therefore, there is a technical challenge in selecting a content item to be included in the second display panel. More specifically, there are technical challenges in selecting content items that are sufficiently affected by selection preferences to make the second display panel significantly different from the first display panel, without causing the generation of the second display panel to be delayed by the amount of processing required to select the content items.
In some implementations, determining a data set of content items that are dependent on a selection preference of a particular user for presentation to the particular user in a display panel can include determining one or more content items having an enhanced ranking in the data set relative to a ranking generated independent of the selection preference. This provides a fast and computationally efficient method to select content items comprised in the second display panel while making the second display panel significantly different from the first display panel. Likewise, determining a data set of content items that are dependent on the selection preferences of a particular user for presentation to the particular user in the display panel may include determining one or more content items that are added or removed when the one or more content items will not be added or removed when selecting content independent of the selection preferences.
In some implementations, enhancing the ranking of one or more content items can include displaying any changes in the items. For example, if a list of recipes is shown, including a segment of each recipe, the system may select a subset of information to include for each recipe. If the system knows that the user has a preference for a particular component, the personalized item may include the particular component in the snippet or highlight the component, thereby changing the display without changing the order.
With respect to selection preferences, the preferences may be user-specific preferences or proxy preferences based on other users exhibiting user-like behavior. For example, in some implementations, based on data indicating previous selections of a particular user, it is determined that at least one content item is a content item that the particular user will select. In some implementations, determining that at least one content item is a content item that a particular user will select is based on data indicating previous selections by other users having corresponding search histories that satisfy a threshold of similarity to the search history of the particular user. This further facilitates quick and efficient selection of content items for inclusion in the second display panel while making the second display panel significantly different from the first display panel. The threshold may be a fixed threshold or may be an outlier threshold based on motion statistics, e.g., an average percentage from users performing the motion is greater than one standard deviation.
More specifically, in some implementations, the techniques focus on determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is available, and accessing the preference data in response. In some implementations, the subject matter further addresses the technical challenge of determining that a system has no access to a particular person's selection preferences. This technical challenge may be addressed by accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, and accessing user activity data from user sessions of a plurality of other users, where the user activity data specifies an activity of the user. Then, after comparing the user activity data from the current user session of the particular user with the user activity data of the plurality of other users, the system may generate a proxy selection preference for the particular user based on the selection preferences of the other users, the user activity data of the other users satisfying a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session.
Alternatively, or in addition, in some implementations, the technical challenge of determining that the system cannot access selection preferences of a particular person may also be addressed by accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user, and generating selection data indicating the selection preferences of the particular user based on the keywords.
In some implementations, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user may be based on any combination of location data, network history data, search history data, activity data generated by product usage, and the like.
In some implementations, the selection preferences are personalized preferences of a particular user. For example, the two different display panels generated may indicate to a particular user the benefit of using a display panel that is customized based on the particular user's personalized preferences.
Periodically, the search engine provider may wish to evaluate the effectiveness of providing content adjusted in this manner, or may wish to expose the user the ability to provide such adjusted content. To this end, the search engine provider may provide evaluation data to the user and request the user to respond to the evaluation data. However, there is a need to implement the ability to generate assessment data in a manner that is efficient in terms of computing resources. Further, the generated evaluation data also needs to be evaluation data attributable to user preferences of a specific user.
Although the following examples are described primarily in the context of search result content items of a query, the features described in this application may be applied to the selection of many other different types of content items in many different environments. Such suggestions and content items may include suggestions for products; news stories presented on a news portal, and so on. These functions and additional functions will be described in more detail below.
Example operating Environment
FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an example environment 100 in which an adjustment system may be implemented in a search processing system. A computer network 102, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN), the internet, or a combination thereof, connects the publisher web site 104, the user devices 106, and the search engine 110. The online environment 100 may include thousands of publisher websites 104 and user devices 106.
A resource is any data provided by the publisher web site 104 over the network 102 that is associated with a resource address. Resources include HTML pages, word processing documents, and Portable Document Format (PDF) documents, images, videos, and feeds (feed sources), to name a few. The resources may include content such as words, phrases, pictures, etc., and may include embedded information (such as meta information and hyperlinks) and/or embedded instructions (such as scripts).
The user device 106 is an electronic device capable of requesting and receiving resources over the network 102. Example user devices 106 include personal computers, mobile communication devices, and other devices that can send and receive data over the network 102. The user device 106 typically includes a user application, such as a web browser or some other application, to facilitate sending and receiving data over the network 102. The user device 106 may use the application to present the media. Media is some combination of images, video, audio, text, or the like that a user consumes using an application running on user device 106. A web browser may enable a user to display and interact with text, images, video, music, and other information at web pages, typically located on web sites on the world wide web or local area network.
To facilitate searching these resources 105, the search engine 110 identifies the resources by crawling the publisher web sites 104 and indexing the resources provided by the publisher web sites 104. The indexed and optionally cached copy of the resource is stored in index 112.
The user device 106 submits a search query 109 to a search engine 110. The search query 109 is submitted in the form of a search request. In response to a search request, the search engine 110 uses the index 112 to identify resources relevant to the query. Search engine 110 identifies resources in the form of search results 111 and returns the search results to user device 106 in the form of search results page resources. The search results are data generated by the search engine 110 that identifies resources that satisfy a particular search query and includes a resource locator for the resource. Examples of search results may include a web page title, a segment of text extracted from the web page, and a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the web page.
The search results are ranked based on scores related to the resources identified by the search results, such as Information Retrieval (IR) scores, and optionally a separate ranking of each resource relative to other resources (e.g., authority scores). The search results are ranked according to the scores and provided to the user device according to the order.
The user device 106 receives the search results page and renders the page for presentation to the user. In response to a user selecting a search result at the user device 106, the user device 106 requests a resource identified by a resource locator included in the selected search result. A publisher of the publisher website 104 that hosts the resource receives a request for the resource from a user device 106 and provides the resource to the requesting user device 106.
In some implementations, the queries 109 submitted from the user devices 106 are stored in the query log 114. Click data for the query and web pages referenced by the search results are stored in the selection log 116. Query log 114 and selection log 116 define search history data 117, including data from and relating to previous search requests associated with unique identifiers. The click log defines actions taken in response to search result elements (e.g., search results, search query suggestions, and search query optimizations) provided by the search engine 110. Query log 114 and selection log 116 are used to map queries submitted by user devices to the search result elements and resources (e.g., identified web pages for search results) they reference and actions taken by the user. Thus, the search engine may use the selection logs 116 and the query logs 114 to determine the sequence of queries submitted by the user devices 106, the actions taken in response to the queries and search result elements, and the frequency with which the queries were submitted.
One way to enhance search result elements for a user is to provide adjusted result elements that can be selected for inclusion in a display panel based on a number of parameters, including, but not necessarily limited to, a particular user's selection preferences. Periodically, however, a search engine provider may wish to evaluate the effectiveness of providing content adjusted in this manner, or may wish to expose the user the ability to provide such adjusted content. To this end, a search engine provider may provide evaluation data to a user and request that the user respond to the evaluation data. In an example of the present specification, the evaluation data is provided in the form of a first display panel and a second display panel that are simultaneously displayed on the user device. The second display panel displays unadjusted search result content items produced by the particular query that are not based on selection preferences, while the first display panel displays adjusted search result content items that are adjusted based on selection preferences of the user. A particular user may compare the two displays of adjusted and unadjusted content items. The particular user may then be informed of the particular advantages of the presented results that are adjusted based on the particular user's selection preferences. The adjustment subsystem 130 is used to simultaneously generate two display panels on the user device 106 for the adjusted results in the first display and the unadjusted results in the second display. The simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel.
For example, as shown in FIG. 1, the user device 106 may use the application 120 to present the adjusted search results in the first display panel 121 and the unadjusted search results in the second display panel 123. The search results may include adjusted result elements 122A-122N (hereinafter generally referred to as adjusted result elements 122) in the display panel 121. The search results may further include unadjusted result elements 124A-124N (hereinafter generally referred to as unadjusted result elements 124). An example screen shot of two display panels displaying both adjusted and unadjusted result elements simultaneously in a search application for a user device is depicted in FIG. 2.
In some implementations, if the system does not have access to the selection preferences of a particular person stored in the selection log 116, the system may access user activity data from a current user session of the particular user, the user activity data specifying the user's activities, and access user activity data from user sessions of multiple other users from the user preference log 132. The system compares user activity data from a current user session of a particular user with user activity data of a plurality of other users, and generates a proxy selection preference for the particular user based on the selection preferences of the other users, the user activity data of the other users satisfying a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session. Additionally or alternatively, if the system is unable to access the selection preferences of the particular person, the system may access user activity data from a current user session of the particular user, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user, and generate selection data indicating the selection preferences of the particular user based on the keywords.
FIG. 2 depicts a screen shot 200 of an example user interface presenting a first display panel with adjusted result elements and a second display panel with unadjusted result elements according to a search query. In the example screen shot 200, after a user performs a search operation in a search application, a user interface 210 of the user device 106 enables the user to select a preference presentation of results. In particular, the user interface 210 enables a user to select from a first display panel 202 (i.e., "A") and a second display panel 204 (i.e., "B"), the first display panel 202 including adjustment result elements 203A-203N that are adjusted based on user selection preferences or other processes described herein, the second display panel 204 including unadjusted result elements 205A-205N. In this example, the application simultaneously displays two selectable display panels to the user on the user device 106, an adjusted result element 203 in the first display panel 202 and an unadjusted result element 205 in the second display panel 204. The simultaneous display is shown as a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel.
In this example, the adjustment subsystem 130 generates two options for the user to select his or her preferred display panel based on the result elements in each. In particular, as shown in FIG. 2, the system prompts the user with the statement "select your preferred presentation" while showing display panel 202 as option A (e.g., adjusted results element 203) and display panel 204 as option B (e.g., unadjusted results element 205). For example, the user may prefer the result elements of the adjustment because they appear to be related to the user's particular selection preferences. The result elements of the adjustment 203 have been adjusted by the adjustment subsystem 130 based on the selection preferences of the particular user or by accessing user activity data from the current user session of the particular user. The system receives a selection of one of the display panels 202, 204, wherein the user selects the particular display panel that the user prefers. The user interface 210 will then display only that particular display panel and remove the other display panel. Thus, if the user does prefer the results of the adjustment, upon receiving a selection from the user of the display panel 202 labeled "A", the user interface 210 will remove the display panel 204 and simply present the adjusted result elements 203A-203N in full screen mode or similar display. According to some implementations, different icons may be used to represent the above-referenced indicators (e.g., "a," "B" boxes), and different icons may be used for different user actions.
The simultaneous display as shown in fig. 2 may be done according to a triggering process. For example, one trigger may be when a user receives a content item and has not selected to receive a ranked content item based on user preferences. This may be done periodically, for example once a month, until the user decides to receive the content item of the respective ranking, or decides not to permanently choose to receive content items according to the adjusted ranking. Another triggering process is the ranking of periodic assessments based on user preferences. For example, assuming that the user is receiving content items ranked based on user preferences, the system may present the dual display of FIG. 2 every two months to evaluate the effectiveness of the adjusted content on the user. Other criteria for providing dual display may also be used.
The generation of two display panels simultaneously with adjusted and unadjusted search result elements is now described with reference to fig. 3-5.
Utilization of a selection preference process
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram of an example process 300 for evaluating and tuning a system using a search query. The process 300 is implemented, for example, by the conditioning subsystem 130 of fig. 1.
The process 300 accesses data indicating selection preferences of a particular user (302). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive selection preferences from the user preference store 132. In some implementations, accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user includes determining that preference data specifying the selection preferences of the particular user is available, and accessing the preference data in response to determining that the preference data specifying the selection preferences of the particular user is available. If user selection preferences are not available, two example processes for generating agent selection preferences and generating selection preferences based on keywords from user data are further described below with reference to process 400 of FIG. 4 and process 500 of FIG. 5, respectively.
The process 300 determines a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of the selection preferences of the particular user (304). For example, the adaptation subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive search results 111 in response to a query 109 from the search engine 110. Search results 111 are ranked by search engine 110 without accessing the user's selection preferences from user preferences store 132.
The process 300 determines a second data set of a second content item for presentation to the particular user in dependence upon the selection preferences of the particular user (306). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive search results 111 responsive to a query 109 from the search engine 110, access selection preferences of a user from the user preference store 132, and adjust the results based on the selection preferences.
In some implementations, the second data set includes at least one second content item having an enhanced ranking in the second data set relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preference and determined to be a content item to be selected by the particular user. For example, the tuning subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive search results 111 responsive to a query 109 from the search engine 110 and determine to increase a ranking of particular results in the search results 111 based on a user's selection preference, where the particular results are results determined to be selected by the user.
In some implementations, enhancing the ranking of the one or more content items may include any change in the display of the one or more content items being enhanced. For example, if a list of recipes is shown, including a segment of each recipe, the system may select a subset of information to include for each recipe. If the user has a preference for a particular component, the system processes the data so that the personalized item can include the particular component in the snippet or highlight the component, thereby changing the display without changing the order.
In some implementations, the at least one second content item is determined to be a content item that the particular user will select based on data indicating previous selections of the particular user. For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive data from the selection log 117 indicating previous selections by a particular user. If these previous selections indicate that the user is likely to select a particular result, the result may be adjusted. Additionally or alternatively, determining that the at least one second content item is a content item that the particular user will select is based on data indicating previous selections by other users having corresponding search histories that satisfy a similarity threshold to the search history of the particular user. For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may receive data from the query log 114 and the selection log 117 indicating previous user selections and corresponding search histories for other users. Based on the data, the adjustment subsystem 130 or search engine 110 analyzes the search histories of the particular user and the other users to determine which search histories meet a similarity threshold with the search history of the particular user.
The process 300 generates a first display panel that will cause the user device to display a first data set of a first content item (308). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may generate a display panel for the search results 111 without changing the result ranking. For example, as shown in FIG. 2, unadjusted results 124A-124N are shown on display panel 123.
The process 300 generates a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item (310). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may generate a display panel for the search results 111 after changing the ranking of the results based on the user selection preferences. For example, as shown in FIG. 2, the results 122A-122N of the adjustments are shown on display panel 121.
The process 300 provides the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device (312). For example, as shown in FIG. 1, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may provide the user device 106 with data for a first display panel 121 that displays a result element 122 (e.g., a second data set of second content items that is dependent on the selection preferences of a particular user) with adjustments on the user interface 106 and simultaneously and adjacently displays a second display panel 123 with a result element 124 (e.g., a first data set of first content items that is independent of the selection preferences of a particular user) with non-adjustments.
In some implementations, as shown in fig. 2, the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel 202 and the second display panel 204. Alternatively, the display panels 202, 204 are displayed one at a time, wherein the user will interact with each display panel to switch between each display panel before selecting a preferred display panel. For example, the user may swipe or mouse click and drag on one display panel of the display, and then the system will display another display panel. In this way, the system may allow the user to switch between the first display panel or the second display until a user selection of a preferred display panel is received.
The process 300 provides data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel (314). For example, as shown in FIG. 2, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may provide data to the user device 106 that displays a display panel on the user interface 106 that requests the user to select preferences. In particular, the user interface 210 prompts the user to "select your preferred presentation" to enable the user to select from a first display panel 202 (i.e., "A") and a second display panel 204 (i.e., "B"), wherein the first display panel 202 includes adjustment result elements 203A-203N that are adjusted based on user selection preferences or other processes described herein, and the second display panel 204 includes unadjusted result elements 205A-205N. In this example, the application simultaneously displays two selectable display panels to the user on the user device 106, an adjusted result element 203 in the first display panel 202 and an unadjusted result element 205 in the second display panel 204.
The process 300 receives data from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel (316). For example, a user of the user device 106 may prefer the adjusted result elements 203A-203N over the unadjusted result elements 205A-205N and make a selection on the display panel 202 or on the display panel 202 itself or on the "A" indicator. After the user selects a preferred display panel, the adjustment subsystem 130 receives the request and stores the user selected preference data in the user preference store 132.
In some implementations, in response to receiving data from the user device indicating a selection of a second display panel (e.g., the first display panel 121 with the adjusted result element 122), the process 300 further includes providing data to the user device that displays an indication that the second display panel is based on selection preferences of the particular user. For example, referring to FIG. 2, assume that the user has selected a display panel 202 ("A") that includes an adjustment results element 122 that has been adjusted based on the user's selection preferences.
In some implementations, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on location data. The location data is Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates, map coordinates (e.g., latitude and longitude), or any other location information that the system can identify and use to generate a result of the adjustment based on the location data. For example, if the user searches for "italian food" and the location data indicates that the user is located in the northeast of city X, the result of the adjustment may adjust the result elements of the italian food restaurant in the northeast of city X to be displayed first.
Additionally or alternatively, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on network history data. For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may access the network history of a particular user from the selection log 116, and the system may use the user's network history to generate the adjusted result elements. Additionally or alternatively, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on search history data. For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may access the search history of a particular user from the query log 114, and the system may use the search history to generate adjusted results.
In some implementations, the data indicating the selection preferences of a particular user is based on a combination of location data, network history data, search history data, and the like.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of another example process 400 for evaluating and adjusting a system using a search query. Process 400 is implemented, for example, by conditioning subsystem 130 of fig. 1. Process 400 is one example process for generating agent selection preferences when user selection preference data is not available for a particular user. Another example process of adjusting the subsystem 130 to generate selection preferences based on keywords from user data when preference data specifying the selection preferences of a particular user is not available is described further below with reference to process 500 of FIG. 5.
The process 400 determines that preference data specifying the selection preferences of a particular user is not available (402). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may request selection preferences from the user preference store 132 and determine that the selection preferences of a particular user are not available.
The process 400 accesses user activity data from the specified user activity of the current user session of the particular user (404). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may obtain user activity data for a particular user from the search engine 110, and the search engine 110 may mine the user activity data from the query logs 114 and/or the selection logs 116 of the search history data 117. The user activity data may include data indicative of a resulting action of a particular user performed during a user session. For example, for resources, data describing actions taken by a particular user after referencing search results for the resource may be stored in query log 114 and selection log 116.
The process 400 accesses user activity data for user sessions from a plurality of other users (406). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may obtain user activity data from other users from the search engine 110, and the search engine 110 may mine user action data from the query logs 114 and/or the selection logs 116 of the search history data 117. The user activity data may include data indicative of result actions of other users performed after selection of the search result element. For example, for a resource, data describing actions taken by the user after referencing search results for the resource may be stored in query log 114 and selection log 116.
The process 400 compares the user activity data from the current user session of the particular user with the user activity data of the plurality of other users (408). For example, the tuning subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may compare the obtained activity data from a particular user with activity data of other users received from the search engine 110 to determine which users' activity data is similar to the particular user.
The process 400 generates agent selection preferences for a particular user based on selection preferences of other users whose user activity data meets a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session based on the comparison (410). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of fig. 1 may determine which user or users 'activity data meets the similarity threshold after comparing activity data from the particular user and other users to determine which users' activity data is similar to the particular user. The threshold may be a fixed threshold or may be an outlier threshold based on motion statistics, e.g., an average percentage from users performing the motion is greater than one standard deviation.
FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of an example process 500 for evaluating and adjusting a system using a search query. Process 500 is implemented, for example, by conditioning subsystem 130 of fig. 1. Process 500 is an example process for generating selection preferences when user selection preference data is not available to a particular user.
The process 500 determines that preference data specifying the selection preferences of a particular user is not available (502). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may request selection preferences from the user preference store 132 and determine that the selection preferences of a particular user are not available.
The process 500 accesses user activity data from a current user session of a particular user specifying keywords entered by the user (504). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of FIG. 1 may obtain user activity data for a particular user from the search engine 110, and the search engine 110 may mine the user activity data from the query logs 114 and/or the selection logs 116 of the search history data 117. The user activity data may include data indicating particular keywords entered by a particular user into one or more search queries performed during a current user session. For example, for a particular user activity, such as a search query, particular keywords used by a particular user may be stored in the query log 114 and the selection log 116.
The process 500 generates selection data indicating selection preferences of a particular user based on the keywords (506). For example, the adjustment subsystem 130 of fig. 1 may use particular keywords entered by a particular user into one or more search queries executed during a current user session, and generate selection data indicating selection preferences of the particular user based on those keywords. For example, the user may enter a query for "rock star X's latest music video". The adjustment subsystem 130 may then generate selection preferences and adjust the content related to "rock star X" and rank the specific "music videos" of that musician higher. The selection preferences are then used to adjust resulting elements other than music videos, but that may bring content that a particular user may be interested in the musician, such as fan-based biographical web pages that contain music videos or other information that a particular user may be interested in. Thus, one display panel with an unadjusted result element (i.e., unadjusted result element 205 of FIG. 2) may display a music video of the musician, while another display panel with an adjusted result element (i.e., adjusted result element 203 of FIG. 2) may display a music video and fan-based web page of the musician, and/or a social media home page of the particular musician. The particular user sending the search may then choose which display panel they prefer to see with respect to other future queries.
FIG. 6 is a block diagram of an example computing device 600, 650, the example computing device 600, 650 to implement the systems and methods described in this document as a client or server or servers. Computing device 600 is intended to represent various forms of digital computers, such as laptops, desktops, workstations, personal digital assistants, servers, blade servers, mainframes, and other appropriate computers. Computing device 600 is also intended to represent any other typical non-mobile device, such as a television or other electronic device with one or more processors embedded therein or attached thereto. Computing device 650 is intended to represent various forms of mobile devices, such as personal digital assistants, cellular telephones, smart phones, and other computing devices. The components shown here, their connections and relationships, and their functions, are meant to be examples only, and are not meant to limit implementations of the disclosure described and/or claimed in this document.
The memory 604 stores information within the computing device 600. In one implementation, the memory 604 is a computer-readable medium. In one implementation, the memory 604 is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation, the memory 604 is a non-volatile memory unit or units.
The storage device 606 can provide mass storage for the computing device 600. In one implementation, the storage device 606 is a computer-readable medium. In various different implementations, the storage device 606 may be a floppy disk device, a hard disk device, an optical disk device, or a tape device, a flash memory or other similar solid state storage device, or an array of devices, including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. In one implementation, a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods, such as the methods described above. The information carrier is a computer-or machine-readable medium, such as the memory 604, the storage device 606, or memory on processor 602.
The high speed controller 608 manages bandwidth-intensive operations for the computing device 600, while the low speed controller 612 manages lower bandwidth-intensive operations. This allocation of duties is merely an example. In one implementation, the high-speed controller 608 is coupled to memory 604, display 616 (e.g., through a graphics processor or accelerator), and high-speed expansion ports 610, which may accept various expansion cards (not shown). In an implementation, the low-speed controller 612 is coupled to the storage device 606 and the low-speed bus 614. The low-speed bus 614 (e.g., low-speed expansion port) may include various communication ports (e.g., USB,
As shown, computing device 600 may be implemented in a number of different forms. For example, it may be implemented as a standard server 620, or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system 624. Further, it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer 622. Alternatively, components from computing device 600 may be combined with other components in a mobile device (not shown), such as computing device 650. Each such device may contain one or more computing devices 600, 650, and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices 600, 650 communicating with each other.
The processor 652 may process instructions for execution within the computing device 650, including instructions stored in the memory 664. The processor may also include separate analog and digital processors. The processor may provide, for example, for coordination of the other components of the computing device 650, such as control of user interfaces, applications run by the computing device 650, and wireless communication by the computing device 650.
The memory 664 stores information within the computing device 650. In one implementation, the memory 664 is a computer-readable medium. In one implementation, the memory 664 is one or more volatile memory units. In another implementation, the memory 664 is one or more non-volatile memory units. Expansion memory 674 may also be provided and connected to computing device 650 through expansion interface 672, which may include, for example, a Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) card interface. Such expansion memory 674 may provide additional storage space for computing device 650, or may also store applications or other information for computing device 650. Specifically, expansion memory 674 may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above, and may include secure information also. Thus, for example, expansion memory 674 may be provided as a security module for computing device 650, and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of computing device 650. Further, security applications may be provided via the SIM card as well as additional information, such as placing identification information on the SIM card in a non-intrusive manner.
The memory may include, for example, flash memory and/or MRAM memory, as described below. In one implementation, a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods, such as the methods described above. The information carrier is a computer-or machine-readable medium, such as the memory 664, expansion memory 674, or memory on processor 652.
As shown, the computing device 650 may be implemented in a number of different forms. For example, it may be implemented as a cellular telephone 680. It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone 682, personal digital assistant, or other mobile device.
Where the systems discussed herein collect or may utilize personal information about a user, the user may be provided with an opportunity to control whether applications or functions collect user information (e.g., information about the user's social network, social actions or activities, profession, the user's preferences, or the user's current location), or to control whether and/or how to receive content that may be more relevant to the user. In addition, the particular data may be processed in one or more ways to delete the personally identifiable information before it is stored or used. For example, the identity of the user may be processed so that no personally identifiable information of the user can be determined, or the geographic location of the user may be generalized where location information is obtained (e.g., into a city, zip code, or state level), so that a particular location of the user cannot be determined. Thus, the user may control how information about the user is collected and used by the content server.
Embodiments of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry, or in computer software, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., one or more modules of computer program instructions, encoded on computer storage media for execution by, or to control the operation of, data processing apparatus.
The computer storage media may be or be included in a computer-readable storage device, a computer-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory array or device, or a combination of one or more of them. Further, although the computer storage medium is not a propagated signal, the computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage media may also be or be included in one or more separate physical components or media (e.g., multiple CDs, disks, or other storage devices).
The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer-readable storage devices or received from other sources.
The term "data processing apparatus" encompasses all kinds of apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including by way of example a programmable processor, a computer, a system on a chip, or a plurality or combination of the foregoing. An apparatus may comprise special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit). The apparatus can include, in addition to hardware, code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question, e.g., code that constitutes processor firmware, a protocol stack, a database management system, an operating system, a cross-platform runtime environment, a virtual machine, or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment may implement a variety of different computing model infrastructures, such as web services, distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.
A computer program (also known as a program, software application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may, but need not, correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), in a single file dedicated to the program in question, or in multiple coordinated files (e.g., files that store one or more modules, sub programs, or portions of code). A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a data communication network.
The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by, and apparatus can also be implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array) or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit).
Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way of example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally, a processor will receive instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with the instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks. However, a computer need not have such devices. Moreover, a computer may be embedded in another device, e.g., a mobile telephone, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or video player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device (e.g., a Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive), to name a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and storage devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry.
To provide for interaction with a user, embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device (e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor) for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device (e.g., a mouse or a trackball) by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices may also be used to provide interaction with the user, for example, feedback provided to the user may be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and input from the user may be received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input. In addition, the computer may interact with the user by sending and receiving documents to and from the device used by the user, for example, by sending web pages to a web browser on the user's device in response to requests received from the web browser.
Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back-end component (e.g., as a data server), or that includes a middleware component (e.g., an application server), or that includes a front-end component (e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification), or any combination of one or more such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication (e.g., a communication network). Examples of communication networks include Local Area Networks (LANs) and Wide Area Networks (WANs), internets (e.g., the internet), and peer-to-peer networks (e.g., ad hoc peer-to-peer networks).
The computing system may include a user and a server. A user and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of user and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a user-server relationship to each other. In some embodiments, the server sends data (e.g., HTML pages) to the user device (e.g., for the purpose of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the user device). Data generated at the user device (e.g., a result of the user interaction) may be received at the server from the user device.
While this specification includes many specific implementation details, these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed, but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Furthermore, although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such, one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination, and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.
Similarly, while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order, or that all illustrated operations be performed, to achieve desirable results. In certain situations, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system modules and components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.
Thus, particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases, the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition, the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.
Claims (20)
1. A method performed by a data processing apparatus, the method comprising:
accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user;
determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user;
determining, in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item, the at least one second content item:
having an enhanced ranking in the second data set relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preference; and is
A content item determined to be selected by a particular user;
generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item;
generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item;
providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel;
providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and
data is received from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is available; and
the preference data is accessed in response to determining that preference data specifying the selection preferences of a particular user is available.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is not available, and in response:
accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, the user activity data specifying activities of the user;
accessing user activity data for user sessions from a plurality of other users;
comparing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user with user activity data of a plurality of other users; and
based on the comparison, agent selection preferences for the particular user are generated based on selection preferences of other users whose user activity data meets a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session.
4. The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is not available, and in response:
accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user; and
based on the keywords, selection data indicating selection preferences of a particular user is generated.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining that the at least one second content item is a content item that a particular user will select is based on data indicative of a previous selection by the particular user.
6. The method of any preceding claim, wherein determining that the at least one second content item is a content item that the particular user will select is based on data indicating previous selections by other users having respective search histories that meet a similarity threshold to the search history of the particular user.
7. A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the data indicative of selection preferences of a particular user is based on location data.
8. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the data indicative of selection preferences of a particular user is based on network history data.
9. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the data indicative of selection preferences of a particular user is based on search history data.
10. The method of any preceding claim, wherein in response to receiving data from a user device indicating a selection of a second display panel, the method further comprises:
providing data to the user device that displays an indication that the second display panel is based on the selection preferences of the particular user.
11. A system, comprising:
a data processing device; and
a non-transitory computer readable storage medium in data communication with a data processing apparatus and storing instructions executable by the data processing apparatus and that, when so executed, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user;
determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user;
determining, in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item, the at least one second content item:
having an enhanced ranking in the second data set relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preference; and is
A content item determined to be selected by a particular user;
generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item;
generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item;
providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel;
providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and
data is received from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is available; and
the preference data is accessed in response to determining that preference data specifying the selection preferences of a particular user is available.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is not available, and in response:
accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, the user activity data specifying activities of the user;
accessing user activity data for user sessions from a plurality of other users;
comparing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user with user activity data of a plurality of other users; and
based on the comparison, agent selection preferences for the particular user are generated based on selection preferences of other users whose user activity data meets a similarity threshold with the user activity data from the current user session.
14. The system of claim 11 or 13, wherein accessing data indicative of selection preferences of a particular user comprises:
determining that preference data specifying selection preferences of a particular user is not available, and in response:
accessing user activity data from a current user session of a particular user, the user activity data specifying keywords entered by the user; and
based on the keywords, selection data indicating selection preferences of a particular user is generated.
15. The system of any of claims 11-14, wherein determining that the at least one second content item is a content item that a particular user will select is based on data indicating a previous selection of the particular user.
16. The system of any of claims 11-15, wherein determining that at least one second content item is a content item that a particular user will select is based on data indicating previous selections by other users having corresponding search histories that satisfy a similarity threshold to the search history of the particular user.
17. The system of any of claims 11-16, wherein the data indicating selection preferences of a particular user is based on location data.
18. The system of any of claims 11-17, wherein the data indicating selection preferences of a particular user is based on network history data.
19. The system of any of claims 11-18, wherein the data indicating selection preferences of a particular user is based on search history data.
20. A non-transitory computer storage medium encoded with a computer program, the computer program comprising instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising:
accessing data indicating selection preferences of a particular user;
determining a first data set of a first content item for presentation to a particular user independent of selection preferences of the particular user;
determining, in dependence on the selection preferences of the particular user, a second data set of second content items for presentation to the particular user, wherein the second data set comprises at least one second content item, the at least one second content item:
having an enhanced ranking in the second data set relative to a ranking generated independently of the selection preference; and is
A content item determined to be selected by a particular user;
generating a first display panel that will cause a user device to display a first data set of a first content item;
generating a second display panel that will cause the user device to display a second data set of a second content item;
providing the first display panel and the second display panel to the user device for simultaneous display on the user device, wherein the simultaneous display is a juxtaposition of the first display panel and the second display panel;
providing data to the user device that displays a request to select one of the first display panel or the second display panel; and
data is received from the user device indicating a selection of one of the first display panel or the second display panel.
Applications Claiming Priority (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
PCT/US2019/022726 WO2020190275A1 (en) | 2019-03-18 | 2019-03-18 | Causal selection preferences |
Publications (1)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN112204546A true CN112204546A (en) | 2021-01-08 |
Family
ID=65995877
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201980036699.8A Pending CN112204546A (en) | 2019-03-18 | 2019-03-18 | Causal selection preferences |
Country Status (3)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US20210406333A1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN112204546A (en) |
WO (1) | WO2020190275A1 (en) |
Family Cites Families (3)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9524092B2 (en) * | 2014-05-30 | 2016-12-20 | Snaptrack, Inc. | Display mode selection according to a user profile or a hierarchy of criteria |
US10733256B2 (en) * | 2015-02-10 | 2020-08-04 | Researchgate Gmbh | Online publication system and method |
US10007732B2 (en) * | 2015-05-19 | 2018-06-26 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Ranking content items based on preference scores |
-
2019
- 2019-03-18 WO PCT/US2019/022726 patent/WO2020190275A1/en active Application Filing
- 2019-03-18 CN CN201980036699.8A patent/CN112204546A/en active Pending
- 2019-03-18 US US17/048,886 patent/US20210406333A1/en not_active Abandoned
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20210406333A1 (en) | 2021-12-30 |
WO2020190275A1 (en) | 2020-09-24 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
AU2010345063C1 (en) | Information search system with real-time feedback | |
US9916364B2 (en) | Personalization of news articles based on news sources | |
EP3529714B1 (en) | Animated snippets for search results | |
US20160299899A1 (en) | Generating a user-specific ranking model on a user electronic device | |
JP7119124B2 (en) | Action indicator for search behavior output element | |
US11086888B2 (en) | Method and system for generating digital content recommendation | |
US8639679B1 (en) | Generating query suggestions | |
JP7233435B2 (en) | Triggering locational expansion based on inferred intent | |
CN110990725A (en) | Distance-based search ranking demotion | |
US11789946B2 (en) | Answer facts from structured content | |
EP3129900A1 (en) | Ranking suggestions based on user attributes | |
JP6733037B2 (en) | Triggering application information | |
US10146842B2 (en) | Pre-instantiating native applications in background | |
US9519683B1 (en) | Inferring social affinity based on interactions with search results | |
EP4330834A1 (en) | Category recommendation with implicit item feedback | |
CN112204546A (en) | Causal selection preferences | |
US9098589B1 (en) | Geographic annotation of electronic resources | |
US10445384B2 (en) | System and method for determining a search response to a research query | |
US8688669B1 (en) | Content item searching and retrieval | |
US9418156B2 (en) | Providing local data with search results |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination |