AU2014254020B2 - Selective execution of scheduled operations by an intelligent controller - Google Patents
Selective execution of scheduled operations by an intelligent controller Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- AU2014254020B2 AU2014254020B2 AU2014254020A AU2014254020A AU2014254020B2 AU 2014254020 B2 AU2014254020 B2 AU 2014254020B2 AU 2014254020 A AU2014254020 A AU 2014254020A AU 2014254020 A AU2014254020 A AU 2014254020A AU 2014254020 B2 AU2014254020 B2 AU 2014254020B2
- Authority
- AU
- Australia
- Prior art keywords
- control
- pct
- intelligent controller
- time
- setpoint
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G05—CONTROLLING; REGULATING
- G05D—SYSTEMS FOR CONTROLLING OR REGULATING NON-ELECTRIC VARIABLES
- G05D23/00—Control of temperature
- G05D23/19—Control of temperature characterised by the use of electric means
- G05D23/1919—Control of temperature characterised by the use of electric means characterised by the type of controller
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G05—CONTROLLING; REGULATING
- G05B—CONTROL OR REGULATING SYSTEMS IN GENERAL; FUNCTIONAL ELEMENTS OF SUCH SYSTEMS; MONITORING OR TESTING ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUCH SYSTEMS OR ELEMENTS
- G05B15/00—Systems controlled by a computer
- G05B15/02—Systems controlled by a computer electric
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G05—CONTROLLING; REGULATING
- G05B—CONTROL OR REGULATING SYSTEMS IN GENERAL; FUNCTIONAL ELEMENTS OF SUCH SYSTEMS; MONITORING OR TESTING ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUCH SYSTEMS OR ELEMENTS
- G05B2219/00—Program-control systems
- G05B2219/20—Pc systems
- G05B2219/26—Pc applications
- G05B2219/2642—Domotique, domestic, home control, automation, smart house
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F18/00—Pattern recognition
- G06F18/20—Analysing
- G06F18/21—Design or setup of recognition systems or techniques; Extraction of features in feature space; Blind source separation
- G06F18/214—Generating training patterns; Bootstrap methods, e.g. bagging or boosting
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N20/00—Machine learning
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N5/00—Computing arrangements using knowledge-based models
- G06N5/02—Knowledge representation; Symbolic representation
- G06N5/022—Knowledge engineering; Knowledge acquisition
- G06N5/025—Extracting rules from data
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N7/00—Computing arrangements based on specific mathematical models
- G06N7/01—Probabilistic graphical models, e.g. probabilistic networks
-
- Y—GENERAL TAGGING OF NEW TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS; GENERAL TAGGING OF CROSS-SECTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES SPANNING OVER SEVERAL SECTIONS OF THE IPC; TECHNICAL SUBJECTS COVERED BY FORMER USPC CROSS-REFERENCE ART COLLECTIONS [XRACs] AND DIGESTS
- Y02—TECHNOLOGIES OR APPLICATIONS FOR MITIGATION OR ADAPTATION AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE
- Y02B—CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION TECHNOLOGIES RELATED TO BUILDINGS, e.g. HOUSING, HOUSE APPLIANCES OR RELATED END-USER APPLICATIONS
- Y02B20/00—Energy efficient lighting technologies, e.g. halogen lamps or gas discharge lamps
- Y02B20/40—Control techniques providing energy savings, e.g. smart controller or presence detection
Abstract
The current application is directed to intelligent controllers that use sensor output and electronically stored information to determine whether or not one or more types of entities are present within an area, volume, or environment monitored by the intelligent controllers. The intelligent controllers select operational modes and/or modify control schedules with respect to the presence and absence of the one or more entities. The intelligent controllers selectively carry out scheduled control operations during periods of time when one or more types of entities are determined not to be in a controlled environment.
Description
Date of Filing: 2014.04.15 (33) Country
US (72) Inventor(s)
Matsuoka, Yoky;Fisher, Evan J.;Malhotra, Mark;Stefanski, Mark D.
(74) Agent / Attorney
Pizzeys Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys Pty Ltd, PO Box 291, WODEN, ACT, 2606, AU (56) Related Art
US 2007/0045431 A1 (12) INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION PUBLISHED UNDER THE PATENT COOPERATION TREATY (PCT) (19) World Intellectual Property Organization
International Bureau (43) International Publication Date 23 October 2014 (23.10.2014)
(10) International Publication Number
WIPOIPCT
WO 2014/172393 Al (51) International Patent Classification:
G05D 23/20 (2006.01) (21) International Application Number:
PCT/US2014/034248 (22) International Filing Date:
April 2014 (15.04.2014) (25) Filing Language: English (26) Publication Language: English (30) Priority Data:
13/864,929 17 April 2013 (17.04.2013) US (71) Applicant: NEST LABS, INC [US/US]; 900 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304 (US).
(72) Inventors: MATSUOKA, Yoky; 900 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304 (US). FISHER, Evan J.; 900 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304 (US). MALHOTRA, Mark; 900 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304 (US). STEFANSKI, Mark D.; 900 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, California 94304 (US).
(74) Agents: BERGSTROM, James T. et al.; Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP, Two Embarcadero Center, Eighth Floor, San Francisco, California 94111 (US).
(81) Designated States (unless otherwise indicated, for every kind of national protection available)·. AE, AG, AL, AM, AO, AT, AU, AZ, BA, BB, BG, BH, BN, BR, BW, BY, BZ, CA, CH, CL, CN, CO, CR, CU, CZ, DE, DK, DM, DO, DZ, EC, EE, EG, ES, FI, GB, GD, GE, GH, GM, GT, HN, HR, HU, ID, IL, IN, IR, IS, JP, KE, KG, KN, KP, KR,
KZ, LA, LC, LK, LR, LS, LT, LU, LY, MA, MD, ME,
MG, MK, MN, MW, MX, MY, MZ, NA, NG, NI, NO, NZ, OM, PA, PE, PG, PH, PL, PT, QA, RO, RS, RU, RW, SA, SC, SD, SE, SG, SK, SL, SM, ST, SV, SY, TH, TJ, TM, TN, TR, TT, TZ, UA, UG, US, UZ, VC, VN, ZA, ZM, ZW.
(84) Designated States (unless otherwise indicated, for every kind of regional protection available)·. ARIPO (BW, GH, GM, KE, LR, LS, MW, MZ, NA, RW, SD, SL, SZ, TZ, UG, ZM, ZW), Eurasian (AM, AZ, BY, KG, KZ, RU, TJ, TM), European (AL, AT, BE, BG, CH, CY, CZ, DE, DK, EE, ES, FI, FR, GB, GR, HR, HU, IE, IS, ΓΓ, LT, LU, LV, MC, MK, MT, NL, NO, PL, PT, RO, RS, SE, SI, SK, SM, TR), OAPI (BF, BJ, CF, CG, CI, CM, GA, GN, GQ, GW, KM, ML, MR, NE, SN, TD, TG).
[Continued on next page] (54) Title: SELECTIVE EXECUTION OF SCHEDULED OPERATIONS BY AN INTELLIGENT CONTROLLER
3020 x
3012
3010 \ probability of presence rises above threshold
probability ci presence fails below threshold and current time is with presence-sensing\„ lime rance no presence \
assumed \ / presence \ / event
3003
3002 temporary assumed
-''mere than a variable threshold amount of time has passed since femporary-assu medpresence state entered or signal from cooperating intelligent controller
(57) Abstract: The current application is directed to intelligent controllers that use sensor output and electronically stored information to determine whether or not one or more types of entities are present within an area, volume, or environment monitored by the intelligent controllers. The intelligent controllers select operational modes and/or modify control schedules with respect to the presence and absence of the one or more entities. The intelligent controllers selectively carry out scheduled control operations during periods of time when one or more types of entities are determined not to be in a controlled environment.
long-term no presence
WO 2014/172393 Al
3016
FIG. 30 more than a variable threshold amount of time has passed since tempo raty-assumed-presence state entered and more than a threshold amount of time has passed since no-presence state entered wo 2014/172393 Al lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^
Declarations under Rule 4.17:
— as to the identity of the inventor (Rule 4.17(if) — as to applicant's entitlement to apply for and be granted a patent (Rule 4.17(H)) — as to the applicant's entitlement to claim the priority of the earlier application (Rule 4.17(iii))
Published:
— with international search report (Art. 21(3)) — before the expiration of the time limit for amending the claims and to be republished in the event of receipt of amendments (Rule 48.2(h))
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
SELECTIVE EXECUTION OF SCHEDULED OPERATIONS BY AN INTELLIGENT CONTROLLER
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 5 This PCT application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Non-provisional
Application No. 13/864,929, filed on April 17, 2013, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
TECHNICAL FIELD
The current patent application is directed to machine learning and intelligent controllers and, in particular, to intelligent controllers, and machinelearning methods incorporated within intelligent controllers, that determine the presence of one or more types of entities within an area, volume, or environment controlled by the intelligent controller and that modify control operation with respect to presence or absence of the one or more entities.
BACKGROUND
Control systems and control theory are well-developed fields of research and development that have had a profound impact on the design and development of a large number of systems and technologies, from airplanes, spacecraft, and other vehicle and transportation systems to computer systems, industrial manufacturing and operations facilities, machine tools, process machinery, and consumer devices. Control theory encompasses a large body of practical, system-control-design principles, but is also an important branch of theoretical and applied mathematics. Various different types of controllers are commonly employed in many different application domains, from simple closed-loop feedback controllers to complex, adaptive, state-space and differential-equations-based processorcontrolled control systems.
Many controllers are designed to output control signals to various dynamical components of a system based on a control model and sensor feedback from the system. Many systems are designed to exhibit a predetermined behavior or mode of operation, and the control components of such systems are therefore
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 designed, by traditional design and optimization techniques, to ensure that the predetermined system behavior transpires under normal operational conditions. In certain cases, there may be various different modes of operation for a system, and the control components of the system therefore need to select a current mode of operation for the system and control the system to conform to the selected mode of operation. Theoreticians, researchers, and developers of many different types of controllers and automated systems continue to seek approaches to controller design to produce controllers with the flexibility and intelligence to control systems to select a current operational mode from among different possible operational modes and then provide control outputs to drive the controlled system to produce the selected mode of operation.
SUMMARY
The current application is directed to intelligent controllers that use 15 sensor output and electronically stored information to determine whether or not one or more types of entities are present within an area, volume, or environment monitored by the intelligent controllers. The intelligent controllers select operational modes and/or modify control schedules with respect to the presence and absence of the one or more entities. The intelligent controllers selectively carry out scheduled control operations during periods of time when one or more types of entities are determined not to be in a controlled environment.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figure 1 illustrates a smart-home environment.
Figure 2 illustrates integration of smart-home devices with remote devices and systems.
Figure 3 illustrates information processing within the environment of intercommunicating entities illustrated in Figure 2.
Figure 4 illustrates a general class of intelligent controllers to which 30 the current application is directed.
Figure 5 illustrates additional internal features of an intelligent controller.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Figure 6 illustrates a generalized computer architecture that represents an example of the type of computing machinery that may be included in an intelligent controller, server computer, and other processor-based intelligent devices and systems.
Figure 7 illustrates features and characteristics of an intelligent controller of the general class of intelligent controllers to which the current application is directed.
Figure 8 illustrates a typical control environment within which an intelligent controller operates.
Figure 9 illustrates the general characteristics of sensor output.
Figures 10A-D illustrate information processed and generated by an intelligent controller during control operations.
Figure 11 illustrates a distributed-control environment.
Figure 12 illustrates sensing and inference regions associated with each controller of a set of multiple controllers within an environment.
Figure 13 illustrates control domains within an environment controlled by multiple intelligent controllers.
Figures 14A-C illustrate various types of electronically stored presence-probability information within one or more intelligent controllers and/or remote computer systems accessible to the one or more intelligent controllers.
Figure 14D illustrates a portion of a time line along which computed scalar presence-probability values are shown as columns above time intervals.
Figure 15 illustrates some of the many different types of received and electronically stored information that may be used by an intelligent controller in order 25 to determine the probability of presence of a human being in an entire environment or within subregions or at certain points of the environment.
Figure 16 illustrates a control-flow diagram for intelligent-controller operation.
Figures 17A-B illustrate variations in a presence/no-presence model.
Figures 18A-B provide a state-transition diagram for an intelligent controller that operates according to the two-state transition diagram illustrated in Figure 17A.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Figures 19 and 20 illustrate a three-presence-states intelligent controller using illustration conventions similar to those used in Figures 17A and 18 A.
Figure 21 illustrates varying degrees of distribution of intelligent 5 control with respect to multiple intelligent controllers within an environment.
Figures 22A-C show three different types of control schedules.
Figures 23A-G show representations of immediate-control inputs that may be received and executed by an intelligent controller, and then recorded and overlaid onto control schedules, such as those discussed above with reference to
Figures 22A-C, as part of automated control-schedule learning.
Figures 24A-D illustrate no-presence events and their effects on control schedules.
Figure 25 illustrates many different types of information that may be used by an intelligent controller in order to determine the presence and/or absence of one or more human beings within a controlled environment or a region or subvolume of the controlled environment.
Figures 26A-D illustrate various types of presence-related schedule adjustments.
Figure 27 illustrates the two different types of probability-of-presence 20 data that may be used by an intelligent controller to decide whether or not to carry out scheduled setpoints while in the no-presence state.
Figure 28 shows two different cumulative-probability-of-presence curves corresponding to cumulative-probability-of-presence data maintained within an intelligent controller.
Figures 29A-C illustrate selective carrying out of scheduled setpoints by an intelligent controller in the no-presence state.
Figure 30 illustrates a modified state-transition diagram with respect to the state-transition diagram shown in Figure 19.
Figure 31 illustrates one method by which an intelligent controller 30 evaluates a scheduled setpoint, while in the no-presence state, to determine whether or not to carry out the scheduled setpoint.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Figures 32-33 provide control-flow diagrams that illustrate selective carrying out of scheduled setpoints by an intelligent controller in the no-presence state, as discussed above with reference to Figures 27-31.
Figure 34 illustrates one approach to computing the variable threshold time.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The current application is directed to a general class of intelligent controllers that determine the presence and absence of one or more types of entities within one or more areas, volumes, or environments affected by one or more systems controlled by the intelligent controllers and that includes many different specific types of intelligent controllers that can be applied to, and incorporated within, many different types of devices, machines, systems, and organizations. Intelligent controllers control the operation of devices, machines, systems, and organizations that, in turn, operate to affect any of various parameters within one or more areas, volumes, or environments. The general class of intelligent controllers to which the current application is directed include components that allow the intelligent controllers to directly sense the presence and/or absence of one or more entities using one or more outputs from one or more sensors, to infer the presence and/or absence of the one or more entities within areas, regions, volumes or at points within areas, regions, and volumes from the sensor-based determinations as well as various types of electronically stored data, rules, and parameters, and to adjust control schedules, based on the inferences related to the presence or absence of the one or more entities within the areas, regions, and volumes. The subject matter of this patent specification relates to the subject matter of the following commonly assigned applications, which are incorporated by reference herein: US Ser. No. 13/632,070, filed September 30, 2012; and U.S. Ser. No. 13/632,041 filed September 30, 2012.
The detailed description includes three subsections: (1) an overview of the smart-home environment; (2) presence-and/or-absence detection and control adjustment by intelligent controllers; and (3) selective carrying out of scheduled control operations by an intelligent controller. The first subsection provides a description of one area of technology that offers many opportunities for application
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 and incorporation of methods for detecting the presence and/or absence of one or more entities and for accordingly adjusting the control of one or more systems. The second subsection provides a detailed description of the general class of intelligent controllers which determine the presence and/or absence of one or more entities and that correspondingly adjust control of one or more systems based on the determined presence and/or absence of the one or more entities, including a first, general implementation. The third subsection provides a disclosure of an intelligent controller that selectively carries out scheduled control operation during periods of time when no entities, such as human beings, are determined to be presence in a controlled environment.
Overview of the Smart-Home Environment Figure 1 illustrates a smart-home environment. The smart-home environment 100 includes a number of intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected 15 devices. These smart-home devices intercommunicate and are integrated together within the smart-home environment. The smart-home devices may also communicate with cloud-based smart-home control and/or data-processing systems in order to distribute control functionality, to access higher-capacity and more reliable computational facilities, and to integrate a particular smart home into a larger, multi20 home or geographical smart-home-device-based aggregation.
The smart-home devices may include one more intelligent thermostats
102, one or more intelligent hazard-detection units 104, one or more intelligent entryway-interface devices 106, smart switches, including smart wall-like switches 108, smart utilities interfaces and other services interfaces, such as smart wall-plug interfaces 110, and a wide variety of intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected appliances 112, including refrigerators, televisions, washers, dryers, lights, audio systems, intercom systems, mechanical actuators, wall air conditioners, pool-heating units, irrigation systems, and many other types of intelligent appliances and systems.
In general, smart-home devices include one or more different types of sensors, one or more controllers and/or actuators, and one or more communications interfaces that connect the smart-home devices to other smart-home devices, routers, bridges, and hubs within a local smart-home environment, various different types of
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 local computer systems, and to the Internet, through which a smart-home device may communicate with cloud-computing servers and other remote computing systems. Data communications are generally carried out using any of a large variety of different types of communications media and protocols, including wireless protocols, such as Wi-Fi, ZigBee, 6L0WPAN, various types of wired protocols, including CAT6 Ethernet, HomePlug, and other such wired protocols, and various other types of communications protocols and technologies. Smart-home devices may themselves operate as intermediate communications devices, such as repeaters, for other smarthome devices. The smart-home environment may additionally include a variety of different types of legacy appliances and devices 140 and 142 which lack communications interfaces and processor-based controllers.
Figure 2 illustrates integration of smart-home devices with remote devices and systems. Smart-home devices within a smart-home environment 200 can communicate through the Internet 202 via 3G/4G wireless communications 204, through a hubbed network 206, or by other communications interfaces and protocols. Many different types of smart-home-related data, and data derived from smart-home data 208, can be stored in, and retrieved from, a remote system 210, including a cloud-based remote system. The remote system may include various types of statistics, inference, and indexing engines 212 for data processing and derivation of additional information and rules related to the smart-home environment. The stored data can be exposed, via one or more communications media and protocols, in part or in whole, to various remote systems and organizations, including charities 214, governments 216, academic institutions 218, businesses 220, and utilities 222. In general, the remote data-processing system 210 is managed or operated by an organization or vendor related to smart-home devices or contracted for remote dataprocessing and other services by a homeowner, landlord, dweller, or other smarthome-associated user. The data may also be further processed by additional commercial-entity data-processing systems 213 on behalf of the smart-homeowner or manager and/or the commercial entity or vendor which operates the remote data30 processing system 210. Thus, external entities may collect, process, and expose information collected by smart-home devices within a smart-home environment, may process the information to produce various types of derived results which may be
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 communicated to, and shared with, other remote entities, and may participate in monitoring and control of smart-home devices within the smart-home environment as well as monitoring and control of the smart-home environment. Of course, in many cases, export of information from within the smart-home environment to remote entities may be strictly controlled and constrained, using encryption, access rights, authentication, and other well-known techniques, to ensure that information deemed confidential by the smart-home manager and/or by the remote data-processing system is not intentionally or unintentionally made available to additional external computing facilities, entities, organizations, and individuals.
Figure 3 illustrates information processing within the environment of intercommunicating entities illustrated in Figure 2. The various processing engines 212 within the external data-processing system 210 can process data with respect to a variety of different goals, including provision of managed services 302, various types of advertizing and communications 304, social-networking exchanges and other electronic social communications 306, and for various types of monitoring and rulegeneration activities 308. The various processing engines 212 communicate directly or indirectly with smart-home devices 310-313, each of which may have dataconsumer (DC), data-source (DS), services-consumer (SC), and services-source (SS) characteristics. In addition, the processing engines may access various other types of external information 316, including information obtained through the Internet, various remote information sources, and even remote sensor, audio, and video feeds and sources.
Presence-and/or-Absence Detection and Control Adjustment by Intelligent Controllers
Figure 4 illustrates a general class of intelligent controllers to which the current application is directed. The intelligent controller 402 controls a device, machine, system, or organization 404 via any of various different types of output control signals and receives information about the controlled entity and an environment from sensor output received by the intelligent controller from sensors embedded within the controlled entity 404, the intelligent controller 402, or in the environment. In Figure 4, the intelligent controller is shown connected to the
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 controlled entity 404 via a wire or fiber-based communications medium 406. However, the intelligent controller may be interconnected with the controlled entity by alternative types of communications media and communications protocols, including wireless communications. In many cases, the intelligent controller and controlled entity may be implemented and packaged together as a single system that includes both the intelligent controller and a machine, device, system, or organization controlled by the intelligent controller. The controlled entity may include multiple devices, machines, system, or organizations and the intelligent controller may itself be distributed among multiple components and discrete devices and systems. In addition to outputting control signals to controlled entities and receiving sensor input, the intelligent controller also provides a user interface 410-413 through which a human user can input immediate-control inputs to the intelligent controller as well as create and modify the various types of control schedules, and may also provide the immediate-control and schedule interfaces to remote entities, including a user15 operated processing device or a remote automated control system. In Figure 4, the intelligent controller provides a graphical-display component 410 that displays a control schedule 416 and includes a number of input components 411-413 that provide a user interface for input of immediate-control directives to the intelligent controller for controlling the controlled entity or entities and input of scheduling20 interface commands that control display of one or more control schedules, creation of control schedules, and modification of control schedules.
To summarize, the general class of intelligent controllers to which the current is directed receive sensor input, output control signals to one or more controlled entities, and provide a user interface that allows users to input immediate 25 control command inputs to the intelligent controller for translation by the intelligent controller into output control signals as well as to create and modify one or more control schedules that specify desired controlled-entity operational behavior over one or more time periods. The user interface may be included within the intelligent controller as input and display devices, may be provided through remote devices, including mobile phones, or may be provided both through controller-resident components as well as through remote devices. These basic functionalities and features of the general class of intelligent controllers provide a basis upon which
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 automated control-schedule learning, to which the current application is directed, can be implemented.
Figure 5 illustrates additional internal features of an intelligent controller. An intelligent controller is generally implemented using one or more processors 502, electronic memory 504-507, and various types of microcontrollers 510-512, including a microcontroller 512 and transceiver 514 that together implement a communications port that allows the intelligent controller to exchange data and commands with one or more entities controlled by the intelligent controller, with other intelligent controllers, and with various remote computing facilities, including cloud-computing facilities through cloud-computing servers. Often, an intelligent controller includes multiple different communications ports and interfaces for communicating by various different protocols through different types of communications media. It is common for intelligent controllers, for example, to use wireless communications to communicate with other wireless-enabled intelligent controllers within an environment and with mobile-communications carriers as well as any of various wired communications protocols and media. In certain cases, an intelligent controller may use only a single type of communications protocol, particularly when packaged together with the controlled entities as a single system. Electronic memories within an intelligent controller may include both volatile and non-volatile memories, with low-latency, high-speed volatile memories facilitating execution of control routines by the one or more processors and slower, non-volatile memories storing control routines and data that need to survive power-on/power-off cycles. Certain types of intelligent controllers may additionally include mass-storage devices.
Figure 6 illustrates a generalized computer architecture that represents an example of the type of computing machinery that may be included in an intelligent controller, server computer, and other processor-based intelligent devices and systems. The computing machinery includes one or multiple central processing units (CPUs) 602-605, one or more electronic memories 608 interconnected with the
CPUs by a CPU/memory-subsystem bus 610 or multiple busses, a first bridge 612 that interconnects the CPU/memory-subsystem bus 610 with additional busses 614 and 616 and/or other types of high-speed interconnection media, including multiple,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 high-speed serial interconnects. These busses and/or serial interconnections, in turn, connect the CPUs and memory with specialized processors, such as a graphics processor 618, and with one or more additional bridges 620, which are interconnected with high-speed serial links or with multiple controllers 622-627, such as controller
627, that provide access to various different types of mass-storage devices 628, electronic displays, input devices, and other such components, subcomponents, and computational resources.
Figure 7 illustrates features and characteristics of an intelligent controller of the general class of intelligent controllers to which the current application is directed. An intelligent controller includes controller logic 702 generally implemented as electronic circuitry and processor-based computational components controlled by computer instructions stored in physical data-storage components, including various types of electronic memory and/or mass-storage devices. It should be noted, at the onset, that computer instructions stored in physical data-storage devices and executed within processors comprise the control components of a wide variety of modem devices, machines, and systems, and are as tangible, physical, and real as any other component of a device, machine, or system. Occasionally, statements are encountered that suggest that computer-instructionimplemented control logic is merely software or something abstract and less tangible than physical machine components. Those familiar with modem science and technology understand that this is not the case. Computer instructions executed by processors must be physical entities stored in physical devices. Otherwise, the processors would not be able to access and execute the instructions. The term software can be applied to a symbolic representation of a program or routine, such as a printout or displayed list of programming-language statements, but such symbolic representations of computer programs are not executed by processors. Instead, processors fetch and execute computer instructions stored in physical states within physical data-storage devices. Similarly, computer-readable media are physical data-storage media, such as disks, memories, and mass-storage devices that store data in a tangible, physical form that can be subsequently retrieved from the physical data-storage media.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
The controller logic accesses and uses a variety of different types of stored information and inputs in order to generate output control signals 704 that control the operational behavior of one or more controlled entities. The information used by the controller logic may include one or more stored control schedules 706, received output from one or more sensors 708-710, immediate control inputs received through an immediate-control interface 712, and data, commands, and other information received from remote data-processing systems, including cloud-based data-processing systems 713. In addition to generating control output 704, the controller logic provides an interface 714 that allows users to create and modify control schedules and may also output data and information to remote entities, other intelligent controllers, and to users through an information-output interface.
Figure 8 illustrates a typical control environment within which an intelligent controller operates. As discussed above, an intelligent controller 802 receives control inputs from users or other entities 804 and uses the control inputs, along with stored control schedules and other information, to generate output control signals 805 that control operation of one or more controlled entities 808. Operation of the controlled entities may alter an environment within which sensors 810-812 are embedded. The sensors return sensor output, or feedback, to the intelligent controller 802. Based on this feedback, the intelligent controller modifies the output control signals in order to achieve a specified goal or goals for controlled-system operation. In essence, an intelligent controller modifies the output control signals according to two different feedback loops. The first, most direct feedback loop includes output from sensors that the controller can use to determine subsequent output control signals or control-output modification in order to achieve the desired goal for controlled-system operation. In many cases, a second feedback loop involves environmental or other feedback 816 to users which, in turn, elicits subsequent user control and scheduling inputs to the intelligent controller 802. In other words, users can either be viewed as another type of sensor that outputs immediate-control directives and control-schedule changes, rather than raw sensor output, or can be viewed as a component of a higher-level feedback loop.
There are many different types of sensors and sensor output. In general, sensor output is directly or indirectly related to some type of parameter,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 machine state, organization state, computational state, or physical environmental parameter. Figure 9 illustrates the general characteristics of sensor output. As shown in a first plot 902 in Figure 9, a sensor may output a signal, represented by curve 904, over time, with the signal directly or indirectly related to a parameter P, plotted with respect to the vertical axis 906. The sensor may output a signal continuously or at intervals, with the time of output plotted with respect to the horizontal axis 908. In certain cases, sensor output may be related to two or more parameters. For example, in plot 910, a sensor outputs values directly or indirectly related to two different parameters Pl and P2, plotted with respect to axes 912 and 914, respectively, over time, plotted with respect to vertical axis 916. In the following discussion, for simplicity of illustration and discussion, it is assumed that sensors produce output directly or indirectly related to a single parameter, as in plot 902 in Figure 9. In the following discussion, the sensor output is assumed to be a set of parameter values for a parameter P. The parameter may be related to environmental conditions, such as temperature, ambient light level, sound level, and other such characteristics. However, the parameter may also be the position or positions of machine components, the data states of memory-storage address in data-storage devices, the current drawn from a power supply, the flow rate of a gas or fluid, the pressure of a gas or fluid, and many other types of parameters that comprise useful information for control purposes.
Figures 10A-D illustrate information processed and generated by an intelligent controller during control operations. All the figures show plots, similar to plot 902 in Figure 9, in which values of a parameter or another set of control-related values are plotted with respect to a vertical axis and time is plotted with respect to a horizontal axis. Figure 10A shows an idealized specification for the results of controlled-entity operation. The vertical axis 1002 in Figure 10A represents a specified parameter value, Ps. For example, in the case of an intelligent thermostat, the specified parameter value may be temperature. For an irrigation system, by contrast, the specified parameter value may be flow rate. Figure 10A is the plot of a continuous curve 1004 that represents desired parameter values, over time, that an intelligent controller is directed to achieve through control of one or more devices, machines, or systems. The specification indicates that the parameter value is desired
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 to be initially low 1006, then rise to a relatively high value 1008, then subside to an intermediate value 1010, and then again rise to a higher value 1012. A control specification can be visually displayed to a user, as one example, as a control schedule.
A setpoint change may be stored as a record with multiple fields, including fields that indicate whether the setpoint change is a system-generated setpoint or a user-generated setpoint, whether the setpoint change is an immediatecontrol-input setpoint change or a scheduled setpoint change, the time and date of creation of the setpoint change, the time and date of the last edit of the setpoint change, and other such fields. In addition, a setpoint may be associated with two or more parameter values. As one example, a range setpoint may indicate a range of parameter values within which the intelligent controller should maintain a controlled environment. Setpoint changes are often referred to as setpoints.
Figure 10B shows an alternate view, or an encoded-data view, of a control schedule corresponding to the control specification illustrated in Figure 10A. The control schedule includes indications of a parameter-value increase 1016 corresponding to edge 1018 in Figure 10A, a parameter-value decrease 1020 corresponding to edge 1022 in Figure 10A, and a parameter-value increase 1024 corresponding to edge 1016 in Figure 10A. The directional arrows plotted in Figure
10B can be considered to be setpoints, or indications of desired parameter changes at particular points in time within some period of time.
Figure 10C illustrates the control output by an intelligent controller that might result from the control schedule illustrated in Figure 10B. In this figure, the magnitude of an output control signal is plotted with respect to the vertical axis
1026. For example, the control output may be a voltage signal output by an intelligent thermostat to a heating unit, with a high-voltage signal indicating that the heating unit should be currently operating and a low-voltage output indicating that the heating system should not be operating. Edge 1028 in Figure 10C corresponds to setpoint 1016 in Figure 10B. The width of the positive control output 1030 may be related to the length, or magnitude, of the desired parameter-value change, indicated by the length of setpoint arrow 1016. When the desired parameter value is obtained, the intelligent controller discontinues output of a high-voltage signal, as represented
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 by edge 1032. Similar positive output control signals 1034 and 1036 are elicited by setpoints 1020 and 1024 in Figure 10B.
Finally, Figure 10D illustrates the observed parameter changes, as indicated by sensor output, resulting from control, by the intelligent controller, of one or more controlled entities. In Figure 10D, the sensor output, directly or indirectly related to the parameter P, is plotted with respect to the vertical axis 1040. The observed parameter value is represented by a smooth, continuous curve 1042. Although this continuous curve can be seen to be related to the initial specification curve, plotted in Figure 10A, the observed curve does not exactly match that specification curve. First, it may take a finite period of time 1044 for the controlled entity to achieve the parameter-valued change represented by setpoint 1016 in the control schedule plotted in Figure 10B. Also, once the parameter value is obtained, and the controlled entity directed to discontinue operation, the parameter value may begin to fall 1046, resulting in a feedback-initiated control output to resume operation of the controlled entity in order to maintain the desired parameter value. Thus, the desired high-level constant parameter value 1008 in Figure 10A may, in actuality, end up as a time-varying curve 1048 that does not exactly correspond to the control specification 1004. The first level of feedback, discussed above with reference to Figure 8, is used by the intelligent controller to control one or more control entities so that the observed parameter value, over time, as illustrated in Figure 10D, matches the specified time behavior of the parameter in Figure 10A as closely as possible. The second level feedback control loop, discussed above with reference to Figure 8, may involve alteration of the specification, illustrated in Figure 10A, by a user, over time, either by changes to stored control schedules or by input of immediate-control directives, in order to generate a modified specification that produces a parametervalue/time curve reflective of a user's desired operational results.
There are many types of controlled entities and associated controllers. In certain cases, control output may include both an indication of whether the controlled entity should be currently operational as well as an indication of a level, throughput, or output of operation when the controlled entity is operational. In other cases, the control out may be simply a binary activation/deactivation signal. For
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 simplicity of illustration and discussion, the latter type of control output is assumed in the following discussion.
Figure 11 illustrates a distributed-control environment. The intelligent controller discussed with reference to Figures 4-8, above, is discussed in the context of a single controller within an environment that includes, or that is operated on by, a system controlled by the intelligent controller. However, as shown in Figure 11, multiple intelligent controllers 1102-1104, in certain implementations in cooperation with a remote computing system 1106, may together control one or more systems that operate on an environment in which the multiple intelligent controllers are located or that is controlled remotely by the multiple intelligent controllers. As discussed further, below, the multiple intelligent controllers may control one or more systems with various degrees of control distribution and cooperation. In general, as indicated by double-headed arrows in Figure 11, such as double-headed arrow 1108, each intelligent controller exchanges data with the remaining intelligent controllers of the multiple intelligent controllers and all of the intelligent controllers exchange data with the remote computing system. In certain cases, one or a subset of the multiple controllers acts as a local router or bridge on behalf of the remaining intelligent controllers of the multiple intelligent controllers so that data and messages sent from a first intelligent controller to a target intelligent controller or target remote computing system can be transmitted to, and forwarded by, a second intelligent controller acting as a router or bridge to the target.
Figure 12 illustrates sensing and inference regions associated with each controller of a set of multiple controllers within an environment. The environment controlled by the multiple controllers is represented, in Figure 12, by an outer dashed rectangle 1202. The environment includes three controllers 1204-1206. In certain implementations, rather than intelligent controllers, the environment contains sensors that communicate with corresponding remote intelligent controllers. In the present discussion, for simplicity of description, the intelligent controllers are discussed as residing within the environment that they control, but as indicated in the preceding statement, they may be physically located outside of the environment which they control. Each controller uses one or more sensors to receive sensor output that allows the controller to directly measure or detect characteristics or
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 parameters of the environment within a region of direct perception. The region of direct perception for the controller cl 1204 is shown as a cross-hatched disk-shaped region 1208. The regions of direct perception for controllers c2 and c3 are similarly shown as cross-hatched disk-shaped regions 1210 and 1212, respectively. In the environment illustrated in Figure 12, each controller may be responsible for directly measuring characteristics and parameters of the environment or inferring the characteristics and the parameters of the environment within a perception region. In Figure 12, the perception regions of the three controllers are indicated by dashed lines and contain the corresponding regions of direct perception. For example, the perception region for controller c2 is bounded by the environment boundary 1202 and dashed-lines 1214-1217. As can be seen in Figure 12, both regions of direct perception and perception regions corresponding to different controllers may overlap. For example, the doubly cross-hatched region 1220 represents the overlap of the regions of direct perception associated with controllers cl 1204 and c3 1206.
Similarly, the region bounded by dashed-line segments 1222-1224 represents an overlap of the perception regions associated with controllers cl and c3.
Figure 12 shows that distributed control of an environment with multiple intelligent controllers may be associated with complex considerations. An intelligent controller may be responsible for sensing a portion of the environment, referred to above as the perception region associated with the intelligent controller, that exceeds a region directly accessible by the intelligent controller through sensors, referred to above as the region of direct perception. In order to provide various types of determinations needed for control decisions with respect to the perception region, the intelligent controller may use various rules and differencing techniques to extend determinations based on sensor output to the larger perception region. When an intelligent controller includes multiple sensors, the intelligent controller may also carry out various types of probabilistic determinations with regard to inconsistencies in sensor outputs for multiple sensors, and may continuously calibrate and verify sensor data with independent determinations of environmental characteristics and parameters inferred from sensor output. When perception regions and regions of direct perception associated with multiple controllers overlap, distributed control may involve employing multiple determinations by multiple controllers and resolving
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 conflicting determinations. In many cases, inferences made by one controller based on incomplete sensor data available to the controller may be strengthened by supplemental data relevant to the determinations supplied by other intelligent controllers.
Figure 13 illustrates control domains within an environment controlled by multiple intelligent controllers. In the environment illustrated in Figures 12 and 13, each of the three intelligent controllers 1204-1206 is associated with a control domain, indicated by cross-hatching. In the example shown in Figure 13, the three control domains 1302-1304 associated with intelligent controllers 1204-1206, respectively, are rectangularly shaped. The control domains associated with intelligent controllers cl 1204 and c3 1206 overlap within a first doubly crosshatched region 1308 and the control domains associated with controllers c2 1205 and c3 1206 overlap in a second doubly cross-hatched domain 1310.
The concept of control domains adds further complexity to the distributed control of an environment by multiple intelligent controllers. Intelligent controllers use determinations of various characteristics and parameters of the environment from sensor data and electronically stored information, including control schedules, historical sensor data, and historical determinations of environmental characteristics and parameters, to intelligently control one or more systems to provide desired characteristics and parameters within the control domain associated with the intelligent controller. However, because control domains may overlap, and because a portion of an environment, such as region 1312 in Figure 13, may not be subject to direct control by any intelligent controller through control of one or more systems, many complex distributed-control decisions are made and many tradeoffs considered in order to provide intelligent distributed control over an environment. As one example, intelligent controllers cl and c3 may end up controlling their individual control domains somewhat suboptimally in order to prevent unacceptable characteristics and parameter values from arising in the region of overlap 1308 between their control domains. Furthermore, because control domains may not be strictly coextensive with perception regions, complex control decisions may be undertaken to indirectly control portions of an environment external to individual control domains.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
In Figures 12 and 13, the regions of direct perception, perception regions, and control domains are shown as areas within an environment. In certain intelligent-control problem domains, the regions of direct perception, perception regions, and control domains may be subvolumes within a larger environmental volume. For example, a single-story residence may be adequately described in terms of areas within a total residence area, while a multi-story apartment building may require consideration of subvolumes within a larger volume comprising all of the apartments in the multi-story apartment building. In the following discussion, an area view, rather than a volume view, of intelligent control is adopted, for clarity and ease of illustration and discussion.
The current application is directed to intelligent controllers that directly and indirectly sense the presence of one or more different types of entities within associated perception regions within their environment and then make, either alone or in distributed fashion together with other intelligent controllers and/or remote computers, control-schedule adjustments and may undertake additional activities and tasks depending on whether the one or more entities are present or absent within the environment, as a whole, or within certain portions of the environment. In the following discussion, intelligent controllers that determine the presence of human beings within environments controlled by the intelligent controllers are discussed, as one example. However, the presence or absence of any of a variety of other types of entities may be detected by intelligent controllers and the detection used to adjust control schedules or undertake additional activities. For example, intelligent controllers in manufacturing environment may detect the presence of subassemblies within or near automated assembly stages and accordingly control automated assembly stages to carry out various manufacturing processes on the subassemblies. Various types of automobile-traffic-related intelligent controllers may detect the presence or absence of automobiles in particular regions and accordingly control signal lights, drawbridges, street lighting, and other devices and systems.
Intelligent controllers that detect the presence and/or absence of human beings in an environment or a portion of an environment generally construct and maintain a continuously updated presence-probability map or scalar presenceWO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 probability indication, with continuous updating including updating the probability map or scalar indication after each new sensor reading, after a threshold-level change in sensor readings, at regular intervals, after expiration of timers or after fielding interrupts, or on many other temporal bases. The presence-probability maps or scalar indications are then used for adjustment of control schedules and launching of any of various control operations dependent on the presence or absence of human beings in the overall environment or regions of the environment controlled by the intelligent controllers. Note the phrase presence probability may refer to either the probability of one or more entities being present in an area or volume or the probability of one or more entities being absent from a an area or volume, equivalent to interchanging the polarity of a probability interval [0, 1],
Figures 14A-C illustrate various types of electronically stored presence-probability information within one or more intelligent controllers and/or remote computer systems accessible to the one or more intelligent controllers. Figure
14A shows a presence-probability map for a region of an environment associated with an intelligent controller. In the example shown in Figure 14A, the region 1402 is rectangular, and points within the region are described by coordinates of a rectangular Cartesian coordinate system that includes an x axis 1404 and a y axis 1406. The vertical axis 1408 represents the probability P(x,y) that a human being is present at the position (x,y) within the region 1402. Commonly, the region may be divided in grid-like fashion into a two-dimensional array of smallest-granularity subregions, such as subregion 1410. For those subregions associated with a non-zero presence probability, the height of a column rising from a subregion represents the probability that a human being is currently present within that subregion. Thus, in the example shown in Figure 14A, there is a non-zero probability that a human being is present within a first subregion 1412 and a second subregion 1414 within the region 1402 described by the presence-probability map. In many cases, the probability map is normalized, so that integration of the column volumes for the entire presenceprobability map provides a cumulative presence probability for the entire environment in the range [0,1], However, other types of normalizations are possible, and, for many control decisions, normalization is not required.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Figure 14B illustrates a different type of presence-probability map. In the presence-probability map 1420 shown in Figure 14B, a rectangle 1422 representing an entire environment or a portion of an environment controlled by an intelligent controller is subdivided into subregions 1424-1428. In this presence5 probability map, the height 1430 of a column rising from a subregion represents the probability that a human being is present in that subregion. In general, this second type of presence-probability map is more coarsely grained than the presenceprobability map illustrated in Figure 14A, and the smallest-granularity subregions are regularly sized or regularly positioned within the region or environment 1422 described by the presence-probability map. As one example, a presence-probability map of this type may be used for a residential environment, with each subregion corresponding to a room in the residence.
In general, as indicated above, an intelligent controller maintains a presence-probability map over time, adjusting the presence-probability map, at intervals, to reflect a best estimate for the probability of the presence of a human being in subregions of the map based on current sensor readings, historical, electronically stored information, and information obtained from remote sources. Figure 14C illustrates a presence-probability map maintained by an intelligent controller over time. At each of various points of time, including the points of time labeled ti 1440, /2 1441, and /3 1442 along a horizontal time axis 1444, the intelligent controller has prepared a presence-probability map, including presence-probability maps 1446-1448 corresponding to time points ti, t2, and /3.
In certain cases, one or more intelligent controllers may make a single, scalar determination of the probability of the presence of a human being within an entire environment, and compute the scalar presence-probability value at intervals, over time. Figure 14D illustrates a portion of a time line 1460 along which computed scalar presence-probability values are shown as columns above time intervals.
An intelligent controller may use any of many different types of received and/or electronically stored data in order to construct presence-probability maps and scalar values, discussed above with reference to Figures 4A-D. Figure 15 illustrates some of the many different types of received and electronically stored information that may be used by an intelligent controller in order to determine the
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 probability of presence of a human being in an entire environment or within subregions or at certain points of the environment. In Figure 15, rectangle 1502 represents an intelligent controller. Unfilled circles, such as unfilled circle 1504, represent sensors. Arrows, such as arrow 1516, represent data input. In addition to sensor data and data input from remote information and data sources, the intelligent controller may also internally store many different types of data 1520, including historical sensor data, non-current presence-probability scalars and maps, historical determinations of the presence and/or absence of humans, control schedules, control inputs, and many other different types of data.
Various types of sensors useful for making determinations with regard to the presence or absence of human beings in an environment include proximity detectors 1504, passive infrared (PIR) motion detectors 1505, other types of motion detectors 1506, microphones or other types of acoustic detectors 1507, chargecoupled detectors (CCD) or low-resolution digital cameras 1508, thermopiles or thermocouples 1509, carbon dioxide sensors 1510, water-vapor detectors 1511, pressure sensors 1512, various types of flow meters 1513, security/entry detectors within home-security systems 1514, and various types of field-strength sensors that sense magnetic and electrical fields 1515. Proximity detectors include a wide variety of different types of sensors, including capacitive, capacitive-displacement, conductive, magnetic, optical, thermal, sonar, and other types of sensors. PIR motion-detector sensors detect abrupt changes in temperatures based on infrared radiation emitted by living creatures. Other types of motion detectors include ultrasonic, microwave, and tomographic motion detectors. Acoustic detectors can detect various types of sounds or sound patterns indicative of the presence of human beings. Low-resolution cameras and CCD devices may detect changes in ambient light, including changes in ambient light due to moving objects. Thermopiles and thermocouples can be used to detect changes in temperature correlated with the presence of human beings and other living organisms. Similarly, carbon-dioxide and water-vapor detectors may detect gasses exhaled by human beings and other living creatures. Pressure sensors may detect changes in pressure within an environment due to opening and closing of doors, windows, motion of large objects through the air, and other such pressure changes. Flow meters may detect the rate of flow of
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 water, natural gas, and other gasses and liquids that flow under positive control by human beings. Various types of security-system entry detectors may be used to detect ingress and egress of occupants into and out from an environment. Fieldstrength sensors may detect temporal changes in field strength correlated with presence of human beings or motion of human beings through an environment.
An intelligent controller may receive data inputs from various smart appliances within an environment that indicate the presence of human beings as well as location-monitoring mobile phones and other such appliances 1516, information from a variety of Internet resources 1517 in which presence-and/or-absence information can be gleaned, information from a remote computer system 1518, as, for an example, a remote computer system to which various intelligent-control tasks and data is distributed, and various remote controllers 1519, including other intelligent controllers within an environment controlled by multiple intelligent controllers.
Figure 16 illustrates a control-flow diagram for intelligent-controller operation. In general, an intelligent controller, at a high level, continuously operates within the context of an event handler or event loop. In step 1602, the intelligent controller waits for a next control event. When the next control event occurs, then, in a series of conditional statements, the intelligent controller determines the type of event and invokes a corresponding control routine. In the case of an immediate20 control event, as determined in step 1604, the intelligent controller calls an immediate-control routine, in step 1606, to carry out the intelligent controller's portion of a user interaction to receive one or more immediate-control inputs that direct the intelligent controller to issue control signals, adjust a control schedule, and/or carry out other activities specified by a user through an intermediate-control interface. In the case that the control event is a scheduled control event, such as when the current time corresponds to a time at which a control schedule specifies a control activity to be undertaken, as determined in step 1608, then a schedule-control routine is called, in step 1610, to carry out the scheduled control event. When the control event is a schedule-interface event, as determined in step 1612, then the intelligent controller invokes a schedule-interaction routine, in step 1614, to carry out the intelligent controller's portion of a schedule-input or schedule-change dialog with the user through a schedule interface. In the case that the control event is a sensor event,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 as determined in step 1616, then a sensor routine is called by the intelligent controller in step 1618 to process the sensor event. Sensor events may include interrupts generated by a sensor as a result of a change in sensor output, expiration of timers set to awaken the intelligent controller to process sensor data of a next-scheduled sensor5 data-processing interval, and other such types of events. When the event is a presence event, as determined in step 1620, then the intelligent controller calls a presence routine, in step 1622. A presence event is generally a timer expiration, interrupt, or other such event that informs the intelligent controller that it is time to determine a next current probability-presence scalar value or to construct a next current probability-presence map. As indicated by the ellipsis 1624 in Figure 16, many additional types of control events may occur and may be handled by an intelligent controller, including various types of error events, communications events, power-on and power-off events, and a variety of events generated by internal set components of the intelligent controller.
There are many different models that describe how various different intelligent controllers respond to detected presence and/or absence of human beings. As discussed above, during intelligent-controller operation, the intelligent controller continuously evaluates a wide variety of different types of electronically stored data and input data to update stored indication of the probability of human presence in each of one or more regions within an environment controlled by the intelligent controller. In one model, the intelligent controller primarily operates with respect to two different states: (1) a presence state resulting from determination, by the intelligent controller, that one or more human beings are present within one or more regions; and (2) a no-presence state, in which the intelligent controller has determined that no human beings are present within the one or more regions.
Figures 17A-B illustrate variations in a presence/no-presence model.
Figure 17A shows a simple presence/no-presence model that includes two states for the entire perception region or control domain associated with the controller. When the probability of human presence within the perception region rises above a first threshold value 1702, the intelligent controller transitions to a presence state 1704. When the probability of presence of a human being within the perception region falls below a second threshold value 1706, the intelligent controller transitions to a noWO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 presence state 1708. In this case, the current scalar probability value or presenceprobability map is continuously or iteratively evaluated with respect to one or more thresholds in order to determine in which of the two states 1704 and 1708 the intelligent controller currently resides. As shown in Figure 17B, when an intelligent controller makes presence and/or absence determinations for multiple regions within an environment, then each region is associated with presence and no-presence states. In Figure 17B, each element of the column vector 1710 corresponds to a different region, and each different region is associated with a presence/no-presence statetransition diagram such as the state-transition diagram 1712 associated with region Ri
1714.
Figures 18A-B provide a state-transition diagram for an intelligent controller that operates according to the two-state transition diagram illustrated in Figure 17A. In Figure 18A, each state is represented by a labeled circle, such as labeled circle 1802, and state transitions are represented by curved arrows, such as curved arrow 1804. Figure 18B provides a table in which the lower-case letter corresponding to each state transition in Figure 18A is paired with an explanation of the state transition. In Figure 18A, the intelligent-controller state is largely divided between presence states and no-presence states. In other words, the state-transition diagram of Figure 17A is superimposed over a state-transition diagram for an intelligent controller to produce presence states and no-presence states. However, two states 1806 and 1808 do not have presence and no-presence counterparts, since, in the simple example intelligent controller described by Figures 18A-B, a human being must be present in order to interact with the intelligent controller through a schedule interface or an immediate-control interface. In other words, these two states are defined to be presence states, for this example. Many intelligent controllers would, in fact, have presence and no-presence states for the schedule-interaction state 1806 and the immediate-control state 1808, since users may access a schedule interface or immediate -control interface remotely, through mobile phones and other mobile computing appliances. However, the intelligent controller described by the state-transition diagram provided in Figures 18A-B features a simple schedule display and immediate-control interface that requires the presence of a user. In general, the intelligent controller occupies either of the two control states 1802 and 1808. In these
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 states, the intelligent controller may carry out a variety of different activities on an ongoing basis, including exchanging data with other intelligent controllers and remote computer systems, responding to error events, and other such activities.
When a user interacts with the intelligent controller through the 5 schedule interface, the intelligent controller transitions from either of the control states 1802 and 1808 to the schedule-interaction state 1806. Once the schedule interaction is concluded, the intelligent controller may return to control state 1802 either directly or through a scheduled-change state 1810 as a result of the current time corresponding to a schedule setpoint. However, when the schedule-interaction state
1806 is reached directly from the no-presence control state 1808, there is no state transition that returns the intelligent controller to the no-presence control state 1808. This is because user interaction through the schedule interface provides unambiguous evidence of the fact that a human being is present, in this example, and, therefore, subsequent states are presence-associated states. Similar considerations apply to the immediate-control state 1812. The intelligent controller may transition from the presence-associated states to no-presence-associated states from a presence-event state 1814 in which the intelligent controller determines the current probability of human presence. A similar presence-event state 1816 provides a transition to presence-associated events. Thus, the state transition diagrams in Figure 18A-B represent intelligent-controller operation alternatively to the high-level control-flow diagram provided in Figure 16.
In other intelligent-controller implementations, there may be additional presence-related states. Figures 19 and 20 illustrate a three-presence-states intelligent controller using illustration conventions similar to those used in Figures
17A and 18A. In one type of three-presence-states intelligent controller, the intelligent controller may operate within a presence state 1902, a no-presence state 1904, or a long-term no-presence state 1906. States 1902 and 1904, along with transitions 1908-1909, respond to the state-transition diagram shown in Figure 17A. However, the state-transition diagram shown in Figure 19 also includes state 1906 which corresponds to the absence of human presence within one or more regions controlled by the intelligent controller for greater than a threshold amount of time. This state can be entered either from the no-presence state 1904 or the presence state
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
1902 via transitions 1910 and 1911, respectively. However, the intelligent controller, once in the long-term no-presence state 1906, can only transition out of long-term nopresence state 1906 to the present state 1902. Figure 20 provides a state-transition diagram for intelligent-controller operation similar to that provided in Figure 18A.
However, in this case, there are three different types of states associated with the presence, no-presence, and long-term no-presence states 1902, 1904, and 1906 shown in Figure 19. In other words, the state-transition diagram of Figure 19 has been superimposed over a state-transition diagram for intelligent-controller operation in order to generate the state-transition diagram shown in Figure 20. As in the state10 transition diagram shown in Figure 18A, the schedule-interaction state 2002 and the immediate-control state 2004 are defined to indicate the presence of a human being, and are thus not replicated to create three presence-associated, no-presenceassociated, and long-term-no-presence-associated states.
Figure 21 illustrates varying degrees of distribution of intelligent control with respect to multiple intelligent controllers within an environment. The degree of distribution is indicated by vertical axis 2102. At one extreme 2104, each intelligent controller 2106-2108 is a completely separate and distinct subcontroller, monitoring and controlling a distinct region within an overall environment. At the other extreme 2110, the three intelligent controllers 2112-2114 can be considered to be subcomponents of a distributed intelligent controller 2116, with all sensor data, electronically stored data, and other information processed in distributed fashion in order to monitor and control an environment. Many different intermediate rules of distribution between these two extremes may describe any particular level of distribution exhibited by multiple intelligent controllers of a distributed intelligent controller. For example, the intelligent controllers may be responsible for controlling different subregions, but may share sensor data, presence and/or absence determinations, and other data and inferences in order that each intelligent controller provides optimal or near-optimal control within the control domain associated with the intelligent controller within the context of the entire environment.
Figures 22A-C show three different types of control schedules. In
Figure 22A, the control schedule is a continuous curve 2202 representing a parameter value, plotted with respect to the vertical axis 2204, as a function of time, plotted with
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 respect to the horizontal axis 2206. The continuous curve comprises only horizontal and vertical sections. Horizontal sections represent periods of time at which the parameter is desired to remain constant and vertical sections represent desired changes in the parameter value at particular points in time. This is a simple type of control schedule and is used, below, in various examples of automated controlschedule learning. However, automated control-schedule-leaming methods can also learn more complex types of schedules. For example, Figure 22B shows a control schedule that includes not only horizontal and vertical segments, but arbitrarily angled straight-line segments. Thus, a change in the parameter value may be specified, by such a control schedule, to occur at a given rate, rather than specified to occur instantaneously, as in the simple control schedule shown in Figure 22A. Automated-control-schedule-leaming methods may also accommodate smoothcontinuous-curve-based control schedules, such as that shown in Figure 22C. In general, the characterization and data encoding of smooth, continuous-curve-based control schedules, such as that shown in Figure 22C, is more complex and includes a greater amount of stored data than the simpler control schedules shown in Figures 22B and 22A.
In the following discussion, it is generally assumed that a parameter value tends to relax towards lower values in the absence of system operation, such as when the parameter value is temperature and the controlled system is a heating unit. However, in other cases, the parameter value may relax toward higher values in the absence of system operation, such as when the parameter value is temperature and the controlled system is an air conditioner. The direction of relaxation often corresponds to the direction of lower resource or expenditure by the system. In still other cases, the direction of relaxation may depend on the environment or other external conditions, such as when the parameter value is temperature and the controlled system is an HVAC system including both heating and cooling functionality.
Turning to the control schedule shown in Figure 22A, the continuouscurve-represented control schedule 2202 may be alternatively encoded as discrete setpoints corresponding to vertical segments, or edges, in the continuous curve. A continuous-curve control schedule is generally used, in the following discussion, to represent a stored control schedule either created by a user or remote entity via a
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 schedule-creation interface provided by the intelligent controller or created by the intelligent controller based on already-existing control schedules, recorded immediate-control inputs, and/or recorded sensor data, or a combination of these types of information.
Immediate-control inputs are also graphically represented in parameter-value versus time plots. Figures 23A-G show representations of immediate-control inputs that may be received and executed by an intelligent controller, and then recorded and overlaid onto control schedules, such as those discussed above with reference to Figures 22A-C, as part of automated control10 schedule learning. An immediate-control input is represented graphically by a vertical line segment that ends in a small filled or shaded disk. Figure 23A shows representations of two immediate-control inputs 2302 and 2304. An immediatecontrol input is essentially equivalent to an edge in a control schedule, such as that shown in Figure 22A, that is input to an intelligent controller by a user or remote entity with the expectation that the input control will be immediately carried out by the intelligent controller, overriding any current control schedule specifying intelligent-controller operation. An immediate-control input is therefore a real-time setpoint input through a control-input interface to the intelligent controller.
Because an immediate-control input alters the current control schedule, an immediate-control input is generally associated with a subsequent, temporary control schedule, shown in Figure 23A as dashed horizontal and vertical lines that form a temporary-control-schedule parameter vs. time curve extending forward in time from the immediate-control input. Temporary control schedules 2306 and 2308 are associated with immediate-control inputs 2302 and 2304, respectively, in Figure 23A.
Figure 23 B illustrates an example of immediate-control input and associated temporary control schedule. The immediate-control input 2310 is essentially an input setpoint that overrides the current control schedule and directs the intelligent controller to control one or more controlled entities in order to achieve a parameter value equal to the vertical coordinate of the filled disk 2312 in the representation of the immediate-control input. Following the immediate-control input, a temporary constant-temperature control-schedule interval 2314 extends for a
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 period of time following the immediate-control input, and the immediate-control input is then relaxed by a subsequent immediate-control-input endpoint, or subsequent setpoint 2316. The length of time for which the immediate-control input is maintained, in interval 2314, is a parameter of automated control-schedule learning. The direction and magnitude of the subsequent immediate-control-input endpoint setpoint 2316 represents one or more additional automated-controlschedule-leaming parameters. Please note that an automated-control-scheduleleaming parameter is an adjustable parameter that controls operation of automated control-schedule learning, and is different from the one or more parameter values plotted with respect to time that comprise control schedules. The parameter values plotted with respect to the vertical axis in the example control schedules to which the current discussion refers are related directly or indirectly to observables, including environmental conditions, machines states, and the like.
Figure 23 C shows an existing control schedule on which an immediate-control input is superimposed. The existing control schedule called for an increase in the parameter value P, represented by edge 2320, at 7:00 AM (2322 in Figure 23C). The immediate-control input 2324 specifies an earlier parameter-value change of somewhat less magnitude. Figures 23D-G illustrate various subsequent temporary control schedules that may obtain, depending on various different implementations of intelligent-controller logic and/or current values of automatedcontrol-schedule-leaming parameter values. In Figures 23D-G, the temporary control schedule associated with an immediate-control input is shown with dashed line segments and that portion of the existing control schedule overridden by the immediate-control input is shown by dotted line segments. In one approach, shown in Figure 23D, the desired parameter value indicated by the immediate-control input 2324 is maintained for a fixed period of time 2326 after which the temporary control schedule relaxes, as represented by edge 2328, to the parameter value that was specified by the control schedule at the point in time that the immediate-control input is carried out. This parameter value is maintained 2330 until the next scheduled setpoint, which corresponds to edge 2332 in Figure 23C, at which point the intelligent controller resumes control according to the control schedule.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
In an alternative approach shown in Figure 23E, the parameter value specified by the immediate-control input 2324 is maintained 2332 until a next scheduled setpoint is reached, in this case the setpoint corresponding to edge 2320 in the control schedule shown in Figure 23 C. At the next setpoint, the intelligent controller resumes control according to the existing control schedule. This approach is desired by many users, who expect manually entered setpoints to remain in force until a scheduled setpoint change.
In a different approach, shown in Figure 23F, the parameter value specified by the immediate-control input 2324 is maintained by the intelligent controller for a fixed period of time 2334, following which the parameter value that would have been specified by the existing control schedule at that point in time is resumed 2336.
In the approach shown in Figure 23G, the parameter value specified by the immediate-control input 2324 is maintained 2338 until a setpoint with opposite direction from the immediate-control input is reached, at which the existing control schedule is resumed 2340. In still alternative approaches, the immediate-control input may be relaxed further, to a lowest-reasonable level, in order to attempt to optimize system operation with respect to resource and/or energy expenditure. In these approaches, generally used during aggressive learning, a user is compelled to positively select parameter values greater than, or less than, a parameter value associated with a minimal or low rate of energy or resource usage.
In one example implementation of automated control-schedule learning, an intelligent controller monitors immediate-control inputs and schedule changes over the course of a monitoring period, generally coinciding with the time span of a control schedule or subschedule, while controlling one or more entities according to an existing control schedule except as overridden by immediate-control inputs and input schedule changes. At the end of the monitoring period, the recorded data is superimposed over the existing control schedule and a new provisional schedule is generated by combining features of the existing control schedule and schedule changes and immediate-control inputs. Following various types of resolution, the new provisional schedule is promoted to the existing control schedule
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 for future time intervals for which the existing control schedule is intended to control system operation.
Figures 24A-D illustrate no-presence events and their effects on control schedules. Figure 24 shows a simple control schedule using the same illustration conventions employed in Figures 22A and 23A-G. This schedule includes a relatively low-parameter-value initial time period 2402, a first setpoint 2404, following which the schedule includes a relatively high-parameter-value interval 2406, followed by a second setpoint 2408 that lowers the parameter value back to a relatively low parameter value for a subsequent time period 2410.
In Figure 24B, an intelligent controller, operating according to the control schedule shown in Figure 24A, determines, at time 2412, that a human being is not present in the controlled environment. This determination constitutes a no-presence event 2416 represented by a vertical dashed line 2414 and a disk with a half-shaded portion 2418 indicating presence and an unshaded portion 2420 indicating no presence. As a result of the no-presence event, the intelligent controller adjusts the control schedule by lowering the desired parameter value back to a relatively low value 2422. For example, in a home-heating context, the parameter value may correspond to temperature and the fact that there are no occupants at time ri justifies lowering the temperature setting in order to save energy.
In Figure 24C, at time 2424, a user enters an immediate-control input 2426 to reset the temperature via the immediate-control interface of the intelligent controller. Thus, the user is now present. Because the elapsed time period 2428 between the no-presence event 2416 and the immediate-control input 2426 is, in this case, below a threshold value, the immediate-control input represents a corrective presence event, designated by a disk 2430 with an unshaded portion 2432 preceding a shaded portion 2434, indicating a transition from no presence to presence, and an overlying bar 2436 indicating that there is a strong probability that a recent, preceding no-presence event was incorrectly established by the intelligent controller. As an example, an occupant of a residence may have taken a short nap prior to time t\, as a result of which none of the sensors of the intelligent controller detected the occupant's presence and the presence-related event 2416 was generated. Upon awakening, the
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 occupant noticed a temperature decrease, and adjusted the temperature setting via the immediate-control interface.
Figure 24D shows another situation with respect to the control schedule illustrated in Figure 24A. In Figure 24D, following the initial no-presence event 2416, the schedule was accordingly adjusted by the intelligent controller 2440 and no presence event occurred during the period of time for which the schedule is adjusted. Later, at time /3 2442, the intelligent controller determined a human being is now present in the controlled environment, resulting in the presence event 2444. However, the intelligent controller continues to operate according to the control schedule, in this example, because there is no indication that the occupant intended to override the control schedule. In alternative implementations, the intelligent controller may adjust the control schedule for presence events rather than no-presence events or for both presence events and no-presence events. In many cases, various schedule adjustments with respect to presence events and no-presence events can be specified through a scheduling interface or other input interface of the intelligent controller. Alternatively, the schedule adjustments may be learned, over time, by the intelligent controller by patterns of presence and absence and patterns of immediatecontrol inputs and schedule adjustments.
Figure 25 illustrates many different types of information that may be used by an intelligent controller in order to determine the presence and/or absence of one or more human beings within a controlled environment or a region or subvolume of the controlled environment. As discussed above, the intelligent controller includes a continuous or intermittent presence/no-presence probability-calculating subsystem as well as a state-change switch 2502 that implements the state transitions discussed with reference to Figure 17A. The state-change switch changes a state variable within the intelligent controller between two or more presence-related states, as discussed above. The transitions between presence-related states are initiated based on a current presence-probability map or scalar value and various threshold values. The presence-probability scalar or map is compiled by the intelligent controller based on many different potential types of information. The various types of information may include direct sensor output 2504 as well as recorded output from sensors 2506 over one or more preceding time intervals. The information may additionally include
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 tables, expressions, or other data that relate sensor output values to presence/nopresence probabilities associated with the sensor outputs 2508. In addition, the intelligent controller may maintain confidence or reliability information 2510 for one or more sensors. The sensor-confidence values vary with time and also with respect to outputs of other sensors, environmental conditions, parameters, and characteristics as well as other types of locally or remotely stored information. Information also may include historical control-schedule and setpoint information 2512 as well as a current control schedule 2514 according to which the intelligent controller is currently operating. Information may additionally include historical presence/no10 presence information, such as presence/no-presence determinations previously made by the intelligent controller or other intelligent controllers and remote computer systems with which the intelligent controller communicates 2516. In addition, the intelligent controller may maintain the results of various presence-pattemdetermining analyses 2518. Finally, the information used to compile presence15 probability maps and scalar values may include information obtained from remote entities, including data from remote sensors 2520 within remote intelligent controllers, data from a remote computing facility 2522, data from various user devices, including cell phones and mobile phones 2524, and data from various smart appliances within the controlled environment 2526. The types of information used by an intelligent controller compile presence-probability maps and scalar values that may include many additional types of information in different implementations and contexts. As one example, an intelligent controller may provide a presenceindication interface allowing users to explicitly indicate their presence and absence with respect to the controlled environment, as one example.
Figures 26A-D illustrate various types of presence-related schedule adjustments. Figure 26A shows an example control schedule. Figure 26B illustrates schedule adjustments that may be undertaken, in certain implementations, in response to a presence-to-no-presence event 2602 that occurs at a first point in time ti 2604. In this case, the schedule is generally adjusted to a low-parameter value, such as in intervals 2606-2608, but scheduled setpoints that would raise the parameter value 2610-2612 are preserved in the control schedule. The parameter-value change of these setpoints is allowed to continue for a period of time 2614, following which noWO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 presence schedule adjustments, such as no-presence schedule adjustment 2607, ensue. This period of time may decrease, over time, as a continuing lack of presence further decreases the probability of presence estimations, and no-presence thresholds are more quickly reached following setpoint changes. In addition, explicit rules may be used to decrease the time period according to a time-period-decrease schedule, such as a linear decrease schedule. In the case of a recurring schedule, setpoint 2616 is also preserved, by the presence-to-no-presence event 2602. As shown in Figure 26C, in certain implementations, when no presence has been detected for the remaining control-schedule cycle and some subsequent period, then the control schedule may be more severely adjusted 2620, removing even scheduled setpoints that would otherwise increase the parameter value. In certain implementations, the controlschedule adjustments illustrated in Figure 26B can be carried out by intelligent controllers in a non-presence state and the more severe adjustments illustrated in Figure 26C may be carried out in a long-term no-presence state, as discussed above with reference to Figure 19. Many alternative types of schedule adjustments for both presence events and no-presence events may be undertaken in different contexts and implementations. Figure 26D illustrates the reversal of schedule adjustments upon a corrective no-presence-to-presence event. Following a no-presence event 2602, the schedule is adjusted downward 2622, but the occurrence of a corrective no-presence20 to-presence event 2624 reverses all of the schedule adjustments, such as those shown in Figure 26B, made following the no-presence event 2602.
Automated Presence-Related Deferral Of Scheduled Control
Within An Intelligent Controller
As discussed above, with reference to Figure 26B, in response to a presence-to-no-presence event 2902, the schedule is adjusted by an intelligent controller to a low-parameter value, but various subsequent scheduled setpoints are nonetheless recognized by the intelligent controller and carried out for at least some period of time before the intelligent controller determines that the probability of presence is still below a threshold value and returns to a regime of low-parametervalue settings that characterize the no-presence state (1904 in Figure 19). However,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 in alternative implementations of an intelligent controller, the intelligent controller may choose to carry out, following a presence-to-no-presence event and until a compensatory no-presence-to-presence event occurs, only a subset of the scheduled setpoints or may choose to carry out no subsequent controlled setpoints. In other words, rather than continuing to respond to scheduled setpoints while in the nopresence state, the intelligent controller may only selectively respond to such setpoints. The rationale for this more discriminating control scheme is to avoid unnecessarily expending energy and incurring maintenance overheads in order to carry out scheduled setpoints when, in fact, there is no one in the controlled environment, and therefore an environmental parameter value, such as temperature, can be maintained in a low-energy-consumption setting for a larger portion of the interval between a presence-to-no-presence event and a subsequent, compensatory no-presence-to-presence event.
Note that, in the case of a thermostat intelligent controller, the low15 energy-consumption temperature setting, or energy-efficient temperature setting, may be a relatively high temperature setting when the thermostat is in a cooling mode, such as between 65 degrees Fahrenheit and 90 degrees Fahrenheit, and, when the thermostat is in a heating mode, the energy-efficient temperature setting may be relatively lower, such as between 32 degrees Fahrenheit and 68 degrees Fahrenheit.
In many implementations, the energy-efficient temperature setting, referred to as the away temperature, may be specified, in advance, by a user for both heating and cooling modes or may be a predetermined temperature setting for both heating and cooling modes.
Figure 27 illustrates the two different types of probability-of-presence data that may be used by an intelligent controller to decide whether or not to carry out scheduled setpoints while in the no-presence state. As discussed above, as a result of interpretation of sensor data by the intelligent controller, the intelligent controller maintains a current probability-of-presence indication that indicates whether or not an entity, such as a human being, is present in the controlled environment. For example, the intelligent controller may use a real-value variable that ranges in value from 0.0 to 1.0 to indicate the current probability of the presence of an entity within the controlled environment. Were the value of that variable plotted with respect to time,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 then a current probability of presence for the current day, where the current day is denoted dc, can be represented as a curve 2702 within a plot 2704 of the current probability of presence, P, with respect to time, with the curve ending at a point 2706 corresponding to the current time. An intelligent controller generally saves current5 probability-of-presence values for discrete points in time rather than attempting to model the probability-of-presence with respect to time as a continuous curve. Continuous curves are used in the current figures for simplicity and clarity of illustration. Curve 2702 in Figure 27 shows an example of the current probability of presence during a day when a presence-to-no-presence event 2708, superimposed over the probability-of-presence-vs.-time curve 2702, occurs early in the day at a time C 2710.
Another type of probability-of-presence data is a historical probabilityof-presence data, shown in Figure 27 by curve 2712, that represents cumulative probability-of-presence values observed over a preceding number of days n. As with curve 2702, curve 2712 is a plot of the probability-of-presence P, with respect to the vertical axis 2714, versus time of day, with respect to the horizontal axis 2716. As shown in Figure 27, this plot may be obtained by essentially summing currentprobability-of-presence data for a number n of preceding days 2720 and then dividing the probability-of-presence values by n 2722. In various alternative implementations, more complex statistical methods may be employed to generate the historicalprobability-of-presence curve. As with the current-probability-of-presence curve 2702, the historical-probability-of-presence curve or cumulative-probability-ofpresence curve 2712 may be stored as average probability-of-presence values for a sequence of discrete times during the day, from which a continuous curve, or portions of a corresponding continuous curve, can be generated by interpolation or various curve-fitting methods.
Figure 28 shows two different cumulative-probability-of-presence curves corresponding to cumulative-probability-of-presence data maintained within an intelligent controller. In this case, the intelligent controller stores cumulative 30 weekday-probability-of-presence data 2802 based on the probability-of-presence data for a preceding number of weekdays as well as cumulative-weekend-probability-ofpresence data 2804. In yet additional implementations, an intelligent controller may
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 employ different, or a different number of, separate probability-of-presence data to compute each of a number of different to cumulative-probability-of-presence data sets that reflect different types of time periods with different presence-of-probability characteristics for the controlled environment. In general, the intelligent controller is assumed to employ an appropriate cumulative-probability-of-presence data set when evaluating scheduled control operations, as further discussed below.
Figures 29A-C illustrate selective carrying out of scheduled setpoints by an intelligent controller in the no-presence state. Figure 29A shows an example control schedule. The control schedule includes seven different setpoints corresponding to vertical line segments 2902-2908. Figure 29B illustrates the occurrence of a presence-to-no-presence event 2910 at a point in time 2912 towards the beginning of the control schedule shown in Figure 29A. Following the presenceto-no-presence event 2910, as discussed above, the environmental parameter P is generally adjusted to a low-energy setting and maintained at that setting except at those setpoints where the environmental parameter P is changed to a less energyefficient value. In the case illustrated in Figures 29A-C, the intelligent controller is a thermostat, the environmental parameter P is temperature, and the thermostat is currently in a heating mode, with setpoints that increase the temperature corresponding to changes to less-energy-efficient settings and setpoints that lower the temperature corresponding to changes to more-energy-efficient settings. In the original implementation, discussed above with reference to Figure 26B, setpoints 2904, 2906, and 2907 in Figure 29A would be carried out despite the occurrence of a presence-to-no-presence event 2910 at time 2912. However, in the currently described alternative implementations, the intelligent controller evaluates each of setpoints 2904, 2906, and 2907, following the presence-to-no-presence event 2910, to determine whether or not to carry out these setpoints. Similarly, as shown in Figure 29C, when a presence-to-no-presence event 2920 has occurred sometime in the past at a point in time that caused the intelligent controller to transition to a no-presence state without the subsequent occurrence of a compensatory no-presence-to-presence event, the intelligent controller would evaluate each of setpoints 2902, 2904, 2906, and 2907 of the schedule shown in Figure 29A to determine whether or not to carry out these setpoints.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Figure 30 illustrates a modified state-transition diagram with respect to the state-transition diagram shown in Figure 19. The modified state-transition diagram describes internal presence-related states of an intelligent controller, in one implementation, which selectively carries out scheduled setpoints while in the no5 presence state. A new state 3002, referred to as the temporary-assumed-presence state, represents a fourth state in the state-transition diagram. In the temporaryassumed-presence state, the intelligent controller carries out scheduled setpoints even though the intelligent controller has transitioned to the no-presence state. In other words, the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002 is a subset state of the no10 presence state 3004. The intelligent controller temporarily transitions from the nopresence state 3004, via transition 3006, to the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002 upon the occurrence of an assumed-presence event. An assumed-presence event is either a scheduled control operation that the intelligent controller evaluates and determines should be carried out or, in a distributed control system, may be a signal or message from another cooperating intelligent controller that has transitioned to the temporary-assumed-presence state. Once in the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002, the intelligent controller carries out the setpoint and either waits for the passage of a variable threshold amount of time, when the intelligent controller transitioned to the temporary-assumed-presence state as a result of evaluating a scheduled control operation, or waits for a signal from the other cooperating intelligent controller that imitated the transition to the temporary-assumed-presence state. When no compensatory no-presence-to-presence event is detected during the variable threshold amount of time, or when a signal is received from the cooperating intelligent controller directing return to the no-presence state, the intelligent controller transitions from the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002, via transition 3008, back to the no-presence state. As noted above, the threshold amount of time is variable and, as discussed further below, decreases as the time elapsed since a preceding presence-to-no-presence event increases. In other words, the longer the intelligent controller has failed to detect the presence of an entity, such as a human being, in the controlled environment, the more quickly the intelligent controller reverts from a less-energy-efficient setting specified by a controlled setpoint back to a more-energy-efficient setting. Of course, when the probability of presence rises
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 above a threshold value, while the intelligent controller is in the temporary-assumedpresence state, the intelligent controller may directly transition, via transition 3010, to the presence state 3012. Similarly, while the intelligent controller is in the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002 and sufficient time has elapsed for the intelligent controller to transition to the long-term no-presence state, then, after the variable threshold amount of time, the intelligent controller may directly transition from the temporary-assumed-presence state 3002, via transition 3014, to the longterm no-presence state 3016.
Note that transition 3020 from the presence state 3012 to the no10 presence state 3004 now occurs when the probability of presence falls below a threshold value and when the current time is within a presence-sensing time range. As one example, the presence-sensing-time range for an intelligent thermostat may be all times of day excluding 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., when occupants of a house are likely to be relatively inactive or asleep, and thus it would be unlikely that a presence15 to-no-presence event would be sufficiently reliable to justify transitioning from the present state to the no-presence state.
Figure 31 illustrates one method by which an intelligent controller evaluates a scheduled setpoint, while in the no-presence state, to determine whether or not to carry out a control operation corresponding to the scheduled setpoint.
Figure 31 shows a cumulative-probability-of-presence curve 3102 that represents cumulative-probability-of-presence data maintained by an intelligent controller, with the cumulative-probability-of-presence curve plotted with respect to a vertical axis 3104 representing the probability of presence and a horizontal axis 3106 representing time of day. A scheduled setpoint 3108 is overlaid onto this plot at the point in time
3110 of the scheduled setpoint. The portion of the scheduled-setpoint-overlaid cumulative-probability-of-presence curve in the vicinity of the scheduled setpoint is shown at larger scale 3112 below the plot in Figure 31. In one approach to evaluating scheduled setpoints, the intelligent controller chooses three points in time 3114, 3116, and 3118. The middle point 3116 is the time of day of the scheduled setpoint and, in one approach, the outer points 3114 and 3118 are one hour before and one hour after the setpoint time, respectively. Next, the intelligent controller computes average probability-of-presence values a, b, and c, for one-hour intervals centered around the
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 three selected points 3114, 3116, and 3118. In Figure 31, the average probability-ofpresence values a, b, and c are represented by the heights of horizontal dashed lines 3120, 3122, and 3124 above the horizontal axis, respectively, with the intervals of time 3126-3128 represented by successive pairs of vertical dashed lines. Then, the intelligent controller evaluates whether or not to carry out the scheduled setpoint as indicated by the small portion of pseudocode 3130 in Figure 31. When the value b is greater than the value a, or the value c is greater than the value b, then a variable auto_arrival is set to be true, indicating that the scheduled setpoint should be carried out. Otherwise, the variable auto_arrival is set to be false, indicating that the scheduled setpoint should not be carried out.
Other implementations of scheduled-setpoint evaluation are possible.
The intent is to only carry out those scheduled setpoints that occur at a point in time at which an interpolated cumulative-probability-of-presence curve has a positive slope, indicating that, at the setpoint time, based on cumulative-probability-of15 presence data, the likelihood of an entity returning to the controlled environment is increasing. The cumulative probability-of-presence data may be collected over a fixed number of preceding days or may be determined by any of various statistical methods and analyses.
Figures 32-33 provide control-flow diagrams that illustrate selective carrying out of scheduled setpoints by an intelligent controller in the no-presence state, as discussed above with reference to Figures 27-31. Figure 32 provides a control-flow diagram for the routine scheduled control called in step 1610 of Figure
16. This routine represents a handler for a scheduled-control event. In step 3202, the intelligent controller receives an indication of the scheduled control that may be considered to be carried out by the intelligent controller. A scheduled control may be either a scheduled setpoint or may be a preconditioning time point in advance of a scheduled setpoint at which the intelligent controller would begin actively adjusting an environmental parameter in order that the environmental parameter reach the desired value at the time of the scheduled setpoint. When the intelligent controller is in the long-term no-presence state, as determined in step 3204, the routine scheduled control returns, in step 3206, since scheduled setpoints and preconditioning points are ignored in the long-term no-presence state. When the intelligent controller is in
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 the no-presence state, as determined in step 3208, the intelligent controller calls the routine evaluate setpoint corresponding to scheduled control in step 3210 to determine whether or not to carry out the setpoint. When the routine returns a TRUE value, as determined in step 3212, then, in step 3214, the intelligent controller transitions to the temporary-assumed-presence state and the scheduled control is carried out in step 3216. Otherwise, when the routine returns a FALSE value, as determined in step 3212, the routine scheduled control returns in step 3218. Note that the scheduled control is carried out, in step 3216, when the intelligent controller is in the presence state.
Figure 33 provides a control-flow diagram for the routine evaluate setpoint corresponding to scheduled control called in step 3210 in Figure 32. This routine carries out the evaluation discussed above with reference to Figure 31. In step 3302, the routine determines the setpoint corresponding to the scheduled control. This is either the scheduled control, in the case that the scheduled control is a setpoint, or the setpoint that follows a scheduled preconditioning control. In step 3303, the routine determines whether carrying out the setpoint would involve an energy expenditure. If not, then the routine returns false in step 3305. Thus, in the case of a thermostat intelligent controller in a heating mode, if the setpoint decreases the temperature setting, then the routine would return. Conversely, if the thermostat intelligent controller is in cooling mode, then if the setpoint would increase the temperature, the routine would return in step 3305. Next, in step 3308, the routine determines whether or not the setpoint is the first setpoint of the day. If so, then the routine returns false in step 3310. The routine is only called when the intelligent controller is in the no-presence state, and, when the intelligent controller is in the no25 presence state and is considering the first setpoint of the day, it is likely that there's been no presence of an entity, such as a human being, in the controlled environment over the course of the preceding night, as a result of which it is unlikely that the entity will return during the time at which the setpoint would be carried out and before the control would be reversed following the variable threshold time. Otherwise, in step
3312, the routine accesses cumulative-probability-of-presence data and determines three time points /, fl, and C in step 3314 corresponding to time points 3116, 3114, and 3318, respectively, in the example shown in Figure 31. The time point / is the
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 time of the setpoint, the time point ti is a time prior to the setpoint, and the time /2 is the time point following the setpoint. These time points are specified as being a distance of ta and tc in time, respectively, from the time of the setpoint t. Then, in step 3316, the routine computes the three average probability-of-presence values a, b, and c as discussed above with reference to Figure 31. In step 3318, the routine determines whether or not b is greater than a or c is greater than b, as in the pseudocode 3130 shown in Figure 31, and, if so, returns true in step 3320 and, if not true, returns false in step 3322.
As discussed above with reference to the state transition diagram 10 shown in Figure 30, the threshold amount of time that an intelligent controller waits, after carrying out a setpoint while in the no-presence state, before reverting to an energy-efficient setting, is variable. Figure 34 illustrates one approach to computing the variable threshold time. In Figure 34, the variable threshold time is represented by diagonal dashed line segment 3402 that begins at a point 3404, labeled max / in
Figure 34, and that extends downward to point 3405, and the horizontal dashed line segment 3406 between points 3405 and 3408 at a height min t 3409 above the horizontal axis 3410. These line segments are plotted in a plot with vertical axis 3412 representing a variable threshold time to wait until returning to an energy-efficient setting and horizontal axis 3410 representing the amount of time that has elapsed since the presence-to-no-presence event that caused the intelligent controller to transition to the no-presence state. The intelligent controller can compute the time since the presence-to-no-presence event, such as time /1 3414, and then compute a corresponding variable threshold amount of time, /2 3416, based on the elapsed time /1 and line segments 3402 and 3406. In other words, the variable threshold time /2 is the y coordinate of the point 3418 at which a vertical line segment 3420 positioned at time /1 3414 intersects line segment 3402 or 3406. Equivalently, in a case in which max t is 2 hours, min t is 15 minutes, and the maximum amount of time that has elapsed since the presence-to-no-presence event that caused the intelligent controller to transition to the no-presence state is 2 days, at which point a threshold is reached for a transition to the long-term no-presence state, in which scheduled setpoints are no longer carried out, the variable threshold time TH can be computed, in minutes, from the amount of time /, also in minutes, that has elapsed since the presence-to-noWO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 presence event that caused the intelligent controller to transition to the no-presence state as:
(minutes) 15 (minutes),
777 = t (minutes ) + 2( hours ), 42 < t < 48 (hours).
t < 42 (hours)
Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments, it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example, various different implementations of an intelligent controller that selectively carries out scheduled control operations during a period when an entity is not detected in a controlled environment can be obtained by varying any of many different design and implementation parameters, including intelligent-controller hardware, operating systems and other control programs used in the intelligent controller, and various implementation parameters for controller functionality, including programming language, modular organization, data structures, control structures, and other such parameters. Various different considerations may be applied to determine the range of times during which the absence of an entity's presence may result in a transition to the no-presence or longterm no-presence states. The range of times, for example, may be determined from accumulated sensor and/or probability-of-presence data. Similarly,, various different models and computations may be employed to determine the variable threshold amount of time to wait following carrying out a scheduled control, in the temporaryassumed-presence state before reverting to energy-efficient settings and transitioning back to the no-presence state. Additionally, many different types of methods and considerations may be employed to evaluate a scheduled control operation during times when an entity, such as a human being, is not considered to be present in the controlled environment.
It is appreciated that the previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily
2014254020 22 Mar 2018 apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise, the word comprise, and variations such as comprises and comprising, will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
2014254020 22 Mar 2018
Claims (20)
1. An intelligent controller that controls an energy-consuming system that affects an environmental parameter within a controlled environment, the intelligent controller comprising:
a processor;
one or more sensors;
a memory that stores a control schedule comprising a plurality of scheduled setpoints and cumulative historical probability-of-presence data; and instructions stored within the memory that, when executed by the processor, controls the intelligent controller to:
determine, from output of one or more of the one or more sensors, that no human being is present in the controlled environment for a predetermined time interval;
in response to determining that no human being is present in the controlled environment for the predetermined time interval, enter an away mode of operation where one or more environmental parameters are maintained at levels that are more energy-efficient than the scheduled setpoints; and while operating in the away mode:
for each setpoint in the plurality of scheduled setpoints in the control schedule, determine, based at least in part on the historical probabilityof-presence data, whether to carry out control operations to affect the environmental parameter using the energy-consuming system or whether to ignore the setpoint.
2. The intelligent controller of claim 1 wherein the intelligent controller determines, for each setpoint in the plurality of scheduled setpoints in the control schedule, whether to carry out the control operations to affect the environmental parameter using the energy-consuming system or whether to ignore the setpoint by:
for each control operation corresponding to a scheduled setpoint, evaluating the corresponding setpoint with respect to the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data to determine whether or not to carry out the control operation.
2014254020 22 Mar 2018
3. The intelligent controller of claim 2 wherein evaluating the corresponding setpoint with respect to the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data further comprises determining whether or not the cumulative historical probability-ofpresence data indicates an increase in the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation.
4. The intelligent controller of claim 3 wherein determining whether or not the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data indicates an increase in the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation further comprises:
selecting a first time of day tl prior to the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation, /;
selecting a second time of day t2 following the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation, /; and when either the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day /2 is greater than the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day t or the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day t is greater than the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day tl, determining that the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation is increasing and, otherwise, determining that the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation is not increasing.
5. The intelligent controller of claim 1 wherein the intelligent controller determines, from output of one or more of the one or more sensors, that no human being is present in the controlled environment for the predetermined time interval at times within a range of times of day within which a determination of whether or not a human being is present can be reliably made.
6. The intelligent controller of claim 5 wherein the range of times of day within which a determination of whether or not a human being is present can be reliably made is determined from cumulative sensor data.
2014254020 22 Mar 2018
7. The intelligent controller of claim 5 wherein the range of times of day within which a determination of whether or not a human being is present can be reliably made is 8:00 AM until 8:00 PM.
8. The intelligent controller of claim 1 wherein the intelligent controller determines, for each setpoint in the plurality of scheduled setpoints in the control schedule, whether to carry out the control operations to affect the environmental parameter using the energy-consuming system or whether to ignore the setpoint by:
for each control operation corresponding to a scheduled setpoint, evaluating the corresponding setpoint with respect to the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data to determine whether or not to carry out the control operation; and when the evaluation of the corresponding setpoint indicates that the control operation is to be carried out, returning to maintenance of the one or more environmental parameters at energy-efficient levels for a variable threshold amount of time.
9. The intelligent controller of claim 8 wherein the variable threshold amount of time varies from a maximum variable threshold amount of time, immediately following a determination that no human being is present in the controlled environment, to 0, after an amount of time has elapsed that indicates a long-term absence of human beings in the controlled environment.
10. The intelligent controller of claim 9 wherein maximum variable threshold amount of time is 2 hours and the amount of elapsed time that indicates a long-term absence of human beings in the controlled environment is 2 days, with the variable threshold amount of time decreasing linearly over the period of 2 days.
11. The intelligent controller of claim 1 wherein control operations corresponding to scheduled setpoints include:
changing one or more environmental parameter settings at a time corresponding to a scheduled setpoint; and changing one or more environmental parameter settings at a time prior to a time corresponding to a scheduled setpoint in order to carry out preconditioning.
2014254020 22 Mar 2018
12. The intelligent controller of claim 1 wherein the intelligent controller comprises a thermostat.
13. The intelligent controller of claim 12 wherein the one or more environmental parameters comprises a temperature.
14. The intelligent controller of claim 13 wherein the thermostat is in a heating mode and wherein the thermostat modifies the control schedule to maintain one or more environmental parameters at energy-efficient levels by setting a temperature setting to a specified away temperature below 70 degrees Fahrenheit and above 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
15. The intelligent controller of claim 13 wherein the thermostat is in a cooling mode and wherein the thermostat modifies the control schedule to maintain one or more environmental parameters at energy-efficient levels by setting a temperature setting to a specified away temperature above 65 degrees Fahrenheit and below 90 degrees Fahrenheit.
16. A method for controlling an energy-consuming system that affects an environmental parameter within a controlled environment by an intelligent controller that includes a processor, one or more sensors, a memory that stores a control schedule comprising a plurality of scheduled setpoints and stores cumulative historical probability-ofpresence data, and instructions stored within the memory that, when executed by the processor, control the intelligent controller, the method comprising:
determining, from output of one or more of the one or more sensors, that no human being is present in the controlled environment for a predetermined time interval;
in response to determining that no human being is present in the controlled environment for the predetermined time interval, entering an away mode of operation where one or more environmental parameters are maintained at levels that are more energy-efficient than the scheduled setpoints; and while operating in the away mode:
for each setpoint in the plurality of scheduled setpoints in the control schedule, determining, based at least in part on the historical probability-of-presence data, whether to carry out control operations to affect the environmental parameter using the energy-consuming system or whether to ignore the setpoint.
2014254020 22 Mar 2018
17. The method of claim 16 wherein determining, for each setpoint in the plurality of scheduled setpoints in the control schedule, whether to carry out the control operations to affect the environmental parameter using the energy-consuming system or whether to ignore the setpoint comprises for each control operation corresponding to a scheduled setpoint, evaluating the corresponding setpoint with respect to the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data to determine whether or not to carry out the control operation.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein evaluating the corresponding setpoint with respect to the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data further comprises determining whether or not the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data indicates an increase in the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein determining whether or not the cumulative historical probability-of-presence data indicates an increase in the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation further comprises:
selecting a first time of day tl prior to the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation, /;
selecting a second time of day t2 following the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation, /; and when either the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day /2 is greater than the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day t or the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day t is greater than the cumulative historical probability-of-presence at time of day tl, determining that the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation is increasing and, otherwise, determining that the probability of presence at the time of day of the setpoint corresponding to the control operation is not increasing.
20. The method of claim 16 wherein the intelligent controller comprises a thermostat, and the one or more environmental parameters comprises a temperature.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 «5J
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
2/40
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
I EXTRINSIC INFORMATION j - WEATHER FORECAST (e.g., FROM INTERNET) l „ PRICES * -5 - NEIGHBORHOOD/HOME INFORMATION
PROCESSING _
R4RAD/GMS /
........:/-,
MANAGED
SERVICES
ADVERTISING/ I
COMMUNICATION l·
SOCIAL
CHALLENGES/ RULES/
COMPLIANCE/
REWARDS
: DATA SOURCE DATA CONSUMER SERVICE SOURCE SERVICE CONSUMER
EX:
- SECURITY
- DEMAND/ RESPONSE ^-304
A
313 ! Dsiss r
DCi SC i
DEVICES
EX:
- LIGHTS, HVAC, WATER CONTROLLER/SENSORS
- HOME APPLIANCES
- SMQKE/CO/HAZARD SENSORS/ALARMS
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
MEMORY
SPECIALIZED
PROCESSOR
820
CONTROLLER \ ~~~T
CONTROLLER v623
ΟΟΝ'ΪΚΟ·Λ£Ρ
MASS
STORAGE
DEVICE
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
7/40 remote data and processing
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 /40 feedback sensor
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 sensed parameter A
Oco
O
O
J
CH d
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
10/40 r
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
1103
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
CM
O
CM
1208 1214 environment
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
1302
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
CM
O j \ / ' K s\,^ \ <£>
o co o
’’C'· \
I I \ j
N μ ύ
Ά Ι\ι \
V\h>\ 1 <,Y|XO X'?\ V X \ κ \ X >s \| 1 \ :v μ
X h j s \
“J \| \ >5 x
fi..
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Ω?
Οι,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 smart Internet remote remote iiance resources comouter controller
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 probability of presence 1702 rises above threshold
1710
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 user inputs command to schedule interface to begin schedule interaction schedule interaction terminated by input or time out
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 probability of presence rises above threshold eAuere than a threshold amount of time has passed since no-presence state entered
1910
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
2116
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
25/40
I
1 hr
I
24 hr
2206
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
/ immediate immediate control .. point (user) control interval (system)
2314 immediate control end point (system)
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 r°iP nor rib. zov
OP rib.
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
28/40
WO 2014/172393 PCT/US2014/034248
CL Q. O,
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
Mm*
CG o
o ϊχ o
ra o
jx:
<Q ¢0 ra ra ra ra *-» ra O ® Ci -£* ra p jd ^3 <3Xt CC? «3 -£Z «15
E & a. .2 Q
X lo =3 «Ϊ o. g Ο Ο2504 o
o
TO
Cm \
— S3 Ό 'Ό &
O « ra E ΰ> P £x 5Ζ»
CM to
CM
Φ o
SX
Φ &0
Φ o
£X
ΊΒ o
CX ra ra ra £2
Φ
Xf o
CM
O
LO
CM g δ ra 73 ra C3>
£3 O O «5 03 η§ XX u V £
Ϊ i 2 o JC2 ίΛ T~ ¢0 }*<
<35 O ra ex to
JZ>
£X «9 ex £>
7§
IE οφ «13
δ
p φ ** o X5 SX Φ Φ «Λ p
G>
Φ
-SX o
ra
Έ
Snft
X3
Q to
CM mobile computers computing
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
S3
Ώ -ts a’ ig «
CM
>1
4!
<!
'\ <
ΊI 5 >Η- .
0I’
2j2jUJA.
2704 r-»
CM
Q
LL
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
PS ra
Φ o CZ Φ
Φ Φ ”φ ex
Φ MX Φ O
Φ υΩ .2 Φ > ^3 2 2 Q, £3,
Q>
O
CC
Φ “O ϋϊ
EC Φ §2 CL Φ ^X oo *§£ >· ,o
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 o
co
CZ $3 to CS X3 <O
8 1 fe co c;
co Φ Φ j~ 9» cp $2 i“ c= to co cs
Ct.
CO
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
7/40
Ο co
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 evaluate setpoifitN ©responding to i
WO 2014/172393
PCT/US2014/034248 co co
X <33 co co φ
c:
Ε ό
<Λ
Φ
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US13/864,929 | 2013-04-17 | ||
US13/864,929 US10775814B2 (en) | 2013-04-17 | 2013-04-17 | Selective carrying out of scheduled control operations by an intelligent controller |
PCT/US2014/034248 WO2014172393A1 (en) | 2013-04-17 | 2014-04-15 | Selective execution of scheduled operations by an intelligent controller |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
AU2014254020A1 AU2014254020A1 (en) | 2015-10-29 |
AU2014254020B2 true AU2014254020B2 (en) | 2018-05-10 |
Family
ID=51729787
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
AU2014254020A Active AU2014254020B2 (en) | 2013-04-17 | 2014-04-15 | Selective execution of scheduled operations by an intelligent controller |
Country Status (5)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US10775814B2 (en) |
AU (1) | AU2014254020B2 (en) |
CA (1) | CA2909596C (en) |
DE (1) | DE212014000105U1 (en) |
WO (2) | WO2014172393A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (52)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US10296022B2 (en) * | 2011-08-25 | 2019-05-21 | Siemens Industry, Inc. | Configuration of a building automation system controller |
US20130268128A1 (en) * | 2011-08-25 | 2013-10-10 | Siemens Industry, Inc. | Shared configuration data in a building automation system controller |
US10775814B2 (en) | 2013-04-17 | 2020-09-15 | Google Llc | Selective carrying out of scheduled control operations by an intelligent controller |
CN104460328B (en) * | 2014-10-29 | 2019-05-10 | 小米科技有限责任公司 | Smart machine control method and device based on set scene mode |
US10057077B2 (en) | 2014-10-29 | 2018-08-21 | Xiaomi Inc. | Method and server for controlling smart devices based on predefined scenario mode |
JP2018524534A (en) | 2015-05-04 | 2018-08-30 | ジョンソン コントロールズ テクノロジー カンパニーＪｏｈｎｓｏｎ Ｃｏｎｔｒｏｌｓ Ｔｅｃｈｎｏｌｏｇｙ Ｃｏｍｐａｎｙ | Multifunctional home control system with control system hub and remote sensor |
JP6529609B2 (en) | 2015-05-04 | 2019-06-12 | ジョンソン コントロールズ テクノロジー カンパニーＪｏｈｎｓｏｎ Ｃｏｎｔｒｏｌｓ Ｔｅｃｈｎｏｌｏｇｙ Ｃｏｍｐａｎｙ | Attachable touch thermostat using transparent screen technology |
US10677484B2 (en) | 2015-05-04 | 2020-06-09 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | User control device and multi-function home control system |
US10690641B2 (en) | 2015-06-17 | 2020-06-23 | Trane International Inc. | Sensor calibration systems and methods |
CN105093947A (en) * | 2015-07-13 | 2015-11-25 | 小米科技有限责任公司 | Intelligent device control method and apparatus |
US10223160B2 (en) * | 2015-08-31 | 2019-03-05 | Ayla Networks, Inc. | Compact schedules for resource-constrained devices |
US10760809B2 (en) | 2015-09-11 | 2020-09-01 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat with mode settings for multiple zones |
US10510127B2 (en) | 2015-09-11 | 2019-12-17 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat having network connected branding features |
US9474042B1 (en) | 2015-09-16 | 2016-10-18 | Ivani, LLC | Detecting location within a network |
US10382893B1 (en) * | 2015-09-16 | 2019-08-13 | Ivani, LLC | Building system control utilizing building occupancy |
US10665284B2 (en) | 2015-09-16 | 2020-05-26 | Ivani, LLC | Detecting location within a network |
US11533584B2 (en) | 2015-09-16 | 2022-12-20 | Ivani, LLC | Blockchain systems and methods for confirming presence |
US11277893B2 (en) | 2015-10-28 | 2022-03-15 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat with area light system and occupancy sensor |
US10655881B2 (en) | 2015-10-28 | 2020-05-19 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat with halo light system and emergency directions |
US10546472B2 (en) | 2015-10-28 | 2020-01-28 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat with direction handoff features |
US10162327B2 (en) | 2015-10-28 | 2018-12-25 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Multi-function thermostat with concierge features |
US10318266B2 (en) | 2015-11-25 | 2019-06-11 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Modular multi-function thermostat |
US11686488B2 (en) * | 2016-02-12 | 2023-06-27 | Goodman Manufacturing Company LP | Systems and methods for controlling rate of change of air temperature in a building |
US11680721B2 (en) * | 2016-02-12 | 2023-06-20 | Goodman Manufacturing Company LP | Systems and methods for controlling a heating and air-conditioning (HVAC) system |
US10641508B2 (en) * | 2016-02-12 | 2020-05-05 | Goodman Manufacturing Company LP | Systems and methods for air temperature control using a target time based control plan |
CN115228249A (en) | 2016-05-20 | 2022-10-25 | 环球源公司 | System and method for water extraction control |
US10941951B2 (en) | 2016-07-27 | 2021-03-09 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Systems and methods for temperature and humidity control |
US10769935B2 (en) * | 2016-09-12 | 2020-09-08 | Sensormatic Electronics, LLC | Method and apparatus for unified mobile application for installation of security products |
US10976714B2 (en) | 2016-10-08 | 2021-04-13 | People Power Company | Systems and methods for evaluating sensor data of internet-of-things (IoT) devices and responsively controlling control devices |
AU2017363273A1 (en) | 2016-11-23 | 2019-06-06 | Alarm.Com Incorporated | Detection of authorized user presence and handling of unauthenticated monitoring system commands |
US10458669B2 (en) | 2017-03-29 | 2019-10-29 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Thermostat with interactive installation features |
US11162698B2 (en) | 2017-04-14 | 2021-11-02 | Johnson Controls Tyco IP Holdings LLP | Thermostat with exhaust fan control for air quality and humidity control |
US10712038B2 (en) | 2017-04-14 | 2020-07-14 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Multi-function thermostat with air quality display |
CN106959616A (en) * | 2017-04-28 | 2017-07-18 | 曾凡友 | A kind of long distance control system for smart home |
AU2018300250B2 (en) | 2017-07-14 | 2024-04-18 | Source Global, PBC | Systems for controlled treatment of water with ozone and related methods therefor |
WO2019050866A1 (en) | 2017-09-05 | 2019-03-14 | Zero Mass Water, Inc. | Systems and methods for managing production and distribution of liquid water extracted from air |
AU2018329660B2 (en) | 2017-09-05 | 2023-11-09 | Source Global, PBC | Systems and methods to produce liquid water extracted from air |
US10684037B2 (en) | 2017-10-04 | 2020-06-16 | Trane International Inc. | Thermostat and method for controlling an HVAC system with remote temperature sensor and onboard temperature sensor |
MX2020004213A (en) | 2017-10-06 | 2021-01-15 | Zero Mass Water Inc | Systems for generating water with waste heat and related methods therefor. |
AU2018380168B2 (en) * | 2017-12-06 | 2023-11-02 | Source Global, PBC | Systems for constructing hierarchical training data sets for use with machine-learning and related methods therefor |
US11131474B2 (en) | 2018-03-09 | 2021-09-28 | Johnson Controls Tyco IP Holdings LLP | Thermostat with user interface features |
US10568188B2 (en) * | 2018-03-28 | 2020-02-18 | Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha | On-demand street lighting for a connected vehicle |
AU2019265024A1 (en) | 2018-05-11 | 2020-12-03 | Source Global, PBC | Systems for generating water using exogenously generated heat, exogenously generated electricity, and exhaust process fluids and related methods therefor |
US10536291B2 (en) * | 2018-05-25 | 2020-01-14 | K4Connect Inc. | Home automation system including hub device determined time slot wireless communications and related methods |
US11870862B2 (en) * | 2018-09-17 | 2024-01-09 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | State prediction of devices |
MX2021004482A (en) | 2018-10-19 | 2021-08-16 | Source Global Pbc | Systems and methods for generating liquid water using highly efficient techniques that optimize production. |
US20200124566A1 (en) | 2018-10-22 | 2020-04-23 | Zero Mass Water, Inc. | Systems and methods for detecting and measuring oxidizing compounds in test fluids |
US11107390B2 (en) | 2018-12-21 | 2021-08-31 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Display device with halo |
US11783300B2 (en) | 2018-12-26 | 2023-10-10 | At&T Intellectual Property I, L.P. | Task execution engine and system |
US11268727B2 (en) | 2019-03-27 | 2022-03-08 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Selective zone air condition setpoint mode interface systems and methods |
EP3959000A1 (en) | 2019-04-22 | 2022-03-02 | Source Global, Pbc | Water vapor adsorption air drying system and method for generating liquid water from air |
AU2022210999A1 (en) | 2021-01-19 | 2023-08-24 | Source Global, PBC | Systems and methods for generating water from air |
Citations (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20070045431A1 (en) * | 2005-08-31 | 2007-03-01 | Ranco Incorporated Of Delaware | Occupancy-based zoning climate control system and method |
Family Cites Families (131)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US3991357A (en) | 1974-04-30 | 1976-11-09 | The Stolle Corporation | Storage battery monitoring and recharging control system with automatic control of prime mover driving charging generator |
DE2719144A1 (en) | 1977-04-29 | 1978-11-02 | Siegenia Frank Kg | SOUND-INSULATING VENTILATION DEVICE FOR ROOMS |
US4223831A (en) | 1979-02-21 | 1980-09-23 | Szarka Jay R | Sound activated temperature control system |
US4685614A (en) | 1980-05-27 | 1987-08-11 | Honeywell, Inc. | Analog to digital conversion employing the system clock of a microprocessor, the clock frequency varying with analog input |
US4335847A (en) | 1980-05-27 | 1982-06-22 | Levine Michael R | Electronic thermostat with repetitive operation cycle |
US4408711A (en) | 1980-11-14 | 1983-10-11 | Levine Michael R | Thermostat with adaptive operating cycle |
JPS59106311A (en) | 1982-12-09 | 1984-06-20 | Nippon Denso Co Ltd | Control device for automatic air conditioner |
US4632177A (en) | 1985-03-29 | 1986-12-30 | Honeywell Inc. | Clock operated thermostat having automatic changeover and optimum start |
US4615380A (en) | 1985-06-17 | 1986-10-07 | Honeywell Inc. | Adaptive clock thermostat means for controlling over and undershoot |
US4674027A (en) | 1985-06-19 | 1987-06-16 | Honeywell Inc. | Thermostat means adaptively controlling the amount of overshoot or undershoot of space temperature |
US4751961A (en) | 1986-02-18 | 1988-06-21 | Honeywell Inc. | Electronic programmable thermostat |
US4897798A (en) | 1986-12-08 | 1990-01-30 | American Telephone And Telegraph Company | Adaptive environment control system |
JPH01252850A (en) | 1987-12-24 | 1989-10-09 | Mitsubishi Electric Corp | Display device for airconditioner |
US4971136A (en) | 1989-11-28 | 1990-11-20 | Electric Power Research Institute | Dual fuel heat pump controller |
US5088645A (en) | 1991-06-24 | 1992-02-18 | Ian Bell | Self-programmable temperature control system for a heating and cooling system |
US5240178A (en) | 1991-09-05 | 1993-08-31 | Dewolf Thomas L | Active anticipatory control |
US5211332A (en) | 1991-09-30 | 1993-05-18 | Honeywell Inc. | Thermostat control |
US5244146A (en) | 1992-05-08 | 1993-09-14 | Homebrain, Inc. | Energy-conserving thermostat and method |
US5416725A (en) | 1993-08-18 | 1995-05-16 | P.C. Sentry, Inc. | Computer-based notification system having redundant sensor alarm determination and associated computer-implemented method for issuing notification of events |
US5611484A (en) | 1993-12-17 | 1997-03-18 | Honeywell Inc. | Thermostat with selectable temperature sensor inputs |
US5476221A (en) | 1994-01-28 | 1995-12-19 | Seymour; Richard L. | Easy-to-install thermostatic control system based on room occupancy |
US5395042A (en) | 1994-02-17 | 1995-03-07 | Smart Systems International | Apparatus and method for automatic climate control |
US5555927A (en) | 1995-06-07 | 1996-09-17 | Honeywell Inc. | Thermostat system having an optimized temperature recovery ramp rate |
PT932398E (en) | 1996-06-28 | 2006-09-29 | Ortho Mcneil Pharm Inc | USE OF THE SURFACE OR ITS DERIVATIVES FOR THE PRODUCTION OF A MEDICINAL PRODUCT FOR THE TREATMENT OF MANIAC-DEPRESSIVE BIPOLAR DISTURBLES |
US5673850A (en) * | 1996-07-22 | 1997-10-07 | Lux Products Corporation | Programmable thermostat with rotary dial program setting |
US5918474A (en) | 1996-07-30 | 1999-07-06 | Whirlpool Corporation | Fan motor on/off control system for a refrigeration appliance |
US5902183A (en) | 1996-11-15 | 1999-05-11 | D'souza; Melanius | Process and apparatus for energy conservation in buildings using a computer controlled ventilation system |
US5808294A (en) | 1997-01-14 | 1998-09-15 | Kenco Automatic Feeders | Electronic controller for scheduling device activation by sensing daylight |
US5986357A (en) * | 1997-02-04 | 1999-11-16 | Mytech Corporation | Occupancy sensor and method of operating same |
CA2202008C (en) | 1997-04-07 | 2000-02-08 | Hugues Demilleville | Energy management system |
US5909378A (en) | 1997-04-09 | 1999-06-01 | De Milleville; Hugues | Control apparatus and method for maximizing energy saving in operation of HVAC equipment and the like |
US6072784A (en) | 1997-07-25 | 2000-06-06 | At&T Corp. | CDMA mobile station wireless transmission power management with adaptive scheduling priorities based on battery power level |
ES2238760T3 (en) | 1997-08-19 | 2005-09-01 | Tectonics Research Group Inc. | PROCEDURE AND APPLIANCE TO DETECT IMMINENT EARTHQUAKES. |
US6062482A (en) | 1997-09-19 | 2000-05-16 | Pentech Energy Solutions, Inc. | Method and apparatus for energy recovery in an environmental control system |
US5924486A (en) | 1997-10-29 | 1999-07-20 | Tecom, Inc. | Environmental condition control and energy management system and method |
US5930773A (en) | 1997-12-17 | 1999-07-27 | Avista Advantage, Inc. | Computerized resource accounting methods and systems, computerized utility management methods and systems, multi-user utility management methods and systems, and energy-consumption-based tracking methods and systems |
US6066843A (en) | 1998-04-06 | 2000-05-23 | Lightstat, Inc. | Light discriminator for a thermostat |
US6122603A (en) | 1998-05-29 | 2000-09-19 | Powerweb, Inc. | Multi-utility energy control system with dashboard |
US6098893A (en) | 1998-10-22 | 2000-08-08 | Honeywell Inc. | Comfort control system incorporating weather forecast data and a method for operating such a system |
US6179213B1 (en) | 1999-02-09 | 2001-01-30 | Energy Rest, Inc. | Universal accessory for timing and cycling heat, ventilation and air conditioning energy consumption and distribution systems |
US6095427A (en) | 1999-04-22 | 2000-08-01 | Thermo King Corporation | Temperature control system and method for efficiently obtaining and maintaining the temperature in a conditioned space |
US6631185B1 (en) | 2000-06-22 | 2003-10-07 | Micron Technology Inc. | Method and apparatus for comparing communication service plans based on usage statistics |
US7149727B1 (en) | 2000-11-01 | 2006-12-12 | Avista Advantage, Inc. | Computerized system and method for providing cost savings for consumers |
US6480803B1 (en) | 2000-12-22 | 2002-11-12 | Carrier Corporation | Load shedding thermostat |
US6478233B1 (en) | 2000-12-29 | 2002-11-12 | Honeywell International Inc. | Thermal comfort controller having an integral energy savings estimator |
DE60237433D1 (en) | 2001-02-24 | 2010-10-07 | Ibm | NOVEL MASSIVE PARALLEL SUPERCOMPUTER |
US6370894B1 (en) | 2001-03-08 | 2002-04-16 | Carrier Corporation | Method and apparatus for using single-stage thermostat to control two-stage cooling system |
US20020198629A1 (en) | 2001-04-27 | 2002-12-26 | Enerwise Global Technologies, Inc. | Computerized utility cost estimation method and system |
US6668240B2 (en) | 2001-05-03 | 2003-12-23 | Emerson Retail Services Inc. | Food quality and safety model for refrigerated food |
US6769482B2 (en) | 2001-05-10 | 2004-08-03 | Ranco Incorporated Of Delaware | System and method for switching-over between heating and cooling modes |
US7555364B2 (en) | 2001-08-22 | 2009-06-30 | MMI Controls, L.P. | Adaptive hierarchy usage monitoring HVAC control system |
US6645066B2 (en) | 2001-11-19 | 2003-11-11 | Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. | Space-conditioning control employing image-based detection of occupancy and use |
KR100701110B1 (en) * | 2002-03-28 | 2007-03-30 | 로버트쇼 컨트롤즈 캄파니 | Energy management system and method |
US20050090915A1 (en) | 2002-10-22 | 2005-04-28 | Smart Systems Technologies, Inc. | Programmable and expandable building automation and control system |
US7526452B2 (en) | 2002-12-16 | 2009-04-28 | International Business Machines Corporation | Apparatus, methods and computer programs for metering and accounting for services accessed over a network |
US7627552B2 (en) | 2003-03-27 | 2009-12-01 | Microsoft Corporation | System and method for filtering and organizing items based on common elements |
US7113086B2 (en) | 2003-04-07 | 2006-09-26 | Altec Energy Systems | Systems and methods for monitoring room conditions to improve occupant performance |
US6988671B2 (en) | 2003-05-05 | 2006-01-24 | Lux Products Corporation | Programmable thermostat incorporating air quality protection |
US7702424B2 (en) | 2003-08-20 | 2010-04-20 | Cannon Technologies, Inc. | Utility load control management communications protocol |
JPWO2005022198A1 (en) | 2003-08-27 | 2006-10-26 | Ｎｅｃモバイリング株式会社 | Earthquake prediction method and system |
US20050128067A1 (en) | 2003-12-11 | 2005-06-16 | Honeywell International, Inc. | Automatic sensitivity adjustment on motion detectors in security system |
US7469550B2 (en) | 2004-01-08 | 2008-12-30 | Robertshaw Controls Company | System and method for controlling appliances and thermostat for use therewith |
US7104462B2 (en) | 2004-01-09 | 2006-09-12 | Goodrich Corporation | Low noise solid-state thermostat with microprocessor controlled fault detection and reporting, and programmable set points |
US7502768B2 (en) | 2004-02-27 | 2009-03-10 | Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. | System and method for predicting building thermal loads |
US20050189429A1 (en) | 2004-02-28 | 2005-09-01 | Breeden Robert L. | Thermostat and method for adaptively providing a changeover between heat and cool |
US20050234600A1 (en) | 2004-04-16 | 2005-10-20 | Energyconnect, Inc. | Enterprise energy automation |
US7024336B2 (en) | 2004-05-13 | 2006-04-04 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Method of and apparatus for evaluating the performance of a control system |
US7379791B2 (en) | 2004-08-03 | 2008-05-27 | Uscl Corporation | Integrated metrology systems and information and control apparatus for interaction with integrated metrology systems |
US7188482B2 (en) | 2004-08-27 | 2007-03-13 | Carrier Corporation | Fault diagnostics and prognostics based on distance fault classifiers |
US6990335B1 (en) | 2004-11-18 | 2006-01-24 | Charles G. Shamoon | Ubiquitous connectivity and control system for remote locations |
US7058477B1 (en) | 2004-11-23 | 2006-06-06 | Howard Rosen | Thermostat system with remote data averaging |
US20060196953A1 (en) | 2005-01-19 | 2006-09-07 | Tim Simon, Inc. | Multiple thermostat installation |
US7802618B2 (en) | 2005-01-19 | 2010-09-28 | Tim Simon, Inc. | Thermostat operation method and apparatus |
US7861941B2 (en) * | 2005-02-28 | 2011-01-04 | Honeywell International Inc. | Automatic thermostat schedule/program selector system |
US7849698B2 (en) | 2005-03-02 | 2010-12-14 | York International Corporation | Method and apparatus to sense and establish operation mode for an HVAC control |
US7706617B2 (en) * | 2005-03-30 | 2010-04-27 | Carestream Health, Inc. | Image indexer for indexing a plurality of images |
WO2007027632A2 (en) | 2005-08-30 | 2007-03-08 | Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. | Application of microsystems for comfort control |
US7597976B2 (en) | 2005-12-20 | 2009-10-06 | Gm Global Technology Operations, Inc. | Floating base load hybrid strategy for a hybrid fuel cell vehicle to increase the durability of the fuel cell system |
US7644869B2 (en) | 2005-12-28 | 2010-01-12 | Honeywell International Inc. | Auxiliary stage control of multistage thermostats |
US7891573B2 (en) | 2006-03-03 | 2011-02-22 | Micro Metl Corporation | Methods and apparatuses for controlling air to a building |
US20070228183A1 (en) | 2006-03-28 | 2007-10-04 | Kennedy Kimberly A | Thermostat |
IE20070331A1 (en) * | 2006-05-03 | 2007-11-14 | Lightwave Technologies Ltd | A method of optimising energy consumption |
US8091375B2 (en) | 2006-05-10 | 2012-01-10 | Trane International Inc. | Humidity control for air conditioning system |
US7448140B2 (en) | 2006-05-18 | 2008-11-11 | Nash Steven D | Emergency responder's orientation method and device |
US7580775B2 (en) | 2006-07-11 | 2009-08-25 | Regen Energy Inc. | Method and apparatus for implementing enablement state decision for energy consuming load based on demand and duty cycle of load |
US7784704B2 (en) | 2007-02-09 | 2010-08-31 | Harter Robert J | Self-programmable thermostat |
US20080273754A1 (en) | 2007-05-04 | 2008-11-06 | Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc. | Apparatus and method for defining an area of interest for image sensing |
US8249731B2 (en) | 2007-05-24 | 2012-08-21 | Alexander Bach Tran | Smart air ventilation system |
US8037022B2 (en) | 2007-06-05 | 2011-10-11 | Samsung Electroncis Co., Ltd. | Synchronizing content between content directory service and control point |
BRPI0812392A2 (en) | 2007-06-12 | 2015-07-21 | Facebook Inc | System and methods of accessing and sharing user profile data between social networking website and third party application server |
US8027518B2 (en) | 2007-06-25 | 2011-09-27 | Microsoft Corporation | Automatic configuration of devices based on biometric data |
US8019567B2 (en) | 2007-09-17 | 2011-09-13 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System and method for evaluating changes in the efficiency of an HVAC system |
US7848900B2 (en) | 2008-09-16 | 2010-12-07 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System and method for calculating the thermal mass of a building |
US20090171862A1 (en) | 2007-12-28 | 2009-07-02 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Energy control system |
US20090192894A1 (en) | 2008-01-24 | 2009-07-30 | Carbon Flow, Inc. | Methods and apparatus for creating and managing green micro credits |
US8255090B2 (en) | 2008-02-01 | 2012-08-28 | Energyhub | System and method for home energy monitor and control |
US20090327354A1 (en) | 2008-06-26 | 2009-12-31 | Microsoft Corporation | Notification and synchronization of updated data |
US8010237B2 (en) | 2008-07-07 | 2011-08-30 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System and method for using ramped setpoint temperature variation with networked thermostats to improve efficiency |
US8180492B2 (en) | 2008-07-14 | 2012-05-15 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System and method for using a networked electronic device as an occupancy sensor for an energy management system |
US7918406B2 (en) | 2008-07-22 | 2011-04-05 | Howard Rosen | Override of nonoccupancy status in a thermostat device based upon analysis of recent patterns of occupancy |
US20100025483A1 (en) * | 2008-07-31 | 2010-02-04 | Michael Hoeynck | Sensor-Based Occupancy and Behavior Prediction Method for Intelligently Controlling Energy Consumption Within a Building |
US9268385B2 (en) | 2008-08-20 | 2016-02-23 | International Business Machines Corporation | Introducing selective energy efficiency in a virtual environment |
CA2678827C (en) | 2008-09-15 | 2017-12-05 | Johnson Controls Technology Company | Transition temperature adjustment user interfaces |
US8543244B2 (en) | 2008-12-19 | 2013-09-24 | Oliver Joe Keeling | Heating and cooling control methods and systems |
US8275412B2 (en) | 2008-12-31 | 2012-09-25 | Motorola Mobility Llc | Portable electronic device having directional proximity sensors based on device orientation |
AU2010204729A1 (en) | 2009-01-14 | 2011-09-01 | Integral Analytics, Inc. | Optimization of microgrid energy use and distribution |
US9020647B2 (en) | 2009-03-27 | 2015-04-28 | Siemens Industry, Inc. | System and method for climate control set-point optimization based on individual comfort |
US8442752B2 (en) | 2009-04-23 | 2013-05-14 | Ford Global Technologies, Llc | Climate control head with fuel economy indicator |
US8498753B2 (en) | 2009-05-08 | 2013-07-30 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System, method and apparatus for just-in-time conditioning using a thermostat |
US8596550B2 (en) | 2009-05-12 | 2013-12-03 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System, method and apparatus for identifying manual inputs to and adaptive programming of a thermostat |
US8350697B2 (en) | 2009-05-18 | 2013-01-08 | Alarm.Com Incorporated | Remote device control and energy monitoring by analyzing data and applying rules |
US8415829B2 (en) | 2009-06-02 | 2013-04-09 | Vdc Manufacturing Inc. | Transportable modular multi-appliance device |
US8626344B2 (en) | 2009-08-21 | 2014-01-07 | Allure Energy, Inc. | Energy management system and method |
US8406933B2 (en) | 2009-08-18 | 2013-03-26 | Control4 Corporation | Systems and methods for estimating the effects of a request to change power usage |
US20110046805A1 (en) | 2009-08-18 | 2011-02-24 | Honeywell International Inc. | Context-aware smart home energy manager |
US8498749B2 (en) | 2009-08-21 | 2013-07-30 | Allure Energy, Inc. | Method for zone based energy management system with scalable map interface |
US8503984B2 (en) | 2009-12-23 | 2013-08-06 | Amos Winbush, III | Mobile communication device user content synchronization with central web-based records and information sharing system |
US8352082B2 (en) | 2009-12-31 | 2013-01-08 | Schneider Electric USA, Inc. | Methods and apparatuses for displaying energy savings from an HVAC system |
US20110185895A1 (en) | 2010-02-03 | 2011-08-04 | Paul Freen | Filter apparatus and method of monitoring filter apparatus |
US8706310B2 (en) | 2010-06-15 | 2014-04-22 | Redwood Systems, Inc. | Goal-based control of lighting |
US20120017611A1 (en) | 2010-07-20 | 2012-01-26 | Coffel James A | Load management aware fan control |
US8090477B1 (en) | 2010-08-20 | 2012-01-03 | Ecofactor, Inc. | System and method for optimizing use of plug-in air conditioners and portable heaters |
US8950686B2 (en) * | 2010-11-19 | 2015-02-10 | Google Inc. | Control unit with automatic setback capability |
US8510255B2 (en) * | 2010-09-14 | 2013-08-13 | Nest Labs, Inc. | Occupancy pattern detection, estimation and prediction |
US8996624B2 (en) * | 2010-09-15 | 2015-03-31 | At&T Intellectual Property I, L.P. | Managing presence in communications systems |
US20120085831A1 (en) | 2010-10-07 | 2012-04-12 | Energy Eye, Inc. | Systems and methods for controlling the temperature of a room based on occupancy |
US8850348B2 (en) | 2010-12-31 | 2014-09-30 | Google Inc. | Dynamic device-associated feedback indicative of responsible device usage |
US9176485B2 (en) * | 2011-06-02 | 2015-11-03 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Occupancy prediction using historical occupancy patterns |
CA2853045C (en) | 2011-10-21 | 2023-10-17 | Nest Labs, Inc. | Automated control-schedule acquisition within an intelligent controller |
US8630741B1 (en) * | 2012-09-30 | 2014-01-14 | Nest Labs, Inc. | Automated presence detection and presence-related control within an intelligent controller |
US10775814B2 (en) | 2013-04-17 | 2020-09-15 | Google Llc | Selective carrying out of scheduled control operations by an intelligent controller |
-
2013
- 2013-04-17 US US13/864,929 patent/US10775814B2/en active Active
-
2014
- 2014-04-15 AU AU2014254020A patent/AU2014254020B2/en active Active
- 2014-04-15 WO PCT/US2014/034248 patent/WO2014172393A1/en active Application Filing
- 2014-04-15 CA CA2909596A patent/CA2909596C/en active Active
- 2014-04-15 DE DE212014000105.6U patent/DE212014000105U1/en not_active Expired - Lifetime
- 2014-04-15 WO PCT/US2014/034246 patent/WO2014172391A2/en active Application Filing
Patent Citations (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20070045431A1 (en) * | 2005-08-31 | 2007-03-01 | Ranco Incorporated Of Delaware | Occupancy-based zoning climate control system and method |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
WO2014172391A3 (en) | 2015-04-09 |
US10775814B2 (en) | 2020-09-15 |
CA2909596A1 (en) | 2014-10-23 |
US20140317029A1 (en) | 2014-10-23 |
AU2014254020A1 (en) | 2015-10-29 |
DE212014000105U1 (en) | 2015-12-11 |
WO2014172391A2 (en) | 2014-10-23 |
WO2014172393A1 (en) | 2014-10-23 |
CA2909596C (en) | 2022-11-01 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
AU2014254020B2 (en) | Selective execution of scheduled operations by an intelligent controller | |
US10690369B2 (en) | Automated presence detection and presence-related control within an intelligent controller | |
EP2901233B1 (en) | Automated presence detection and presence-related control within an intelligent controller | |
US10241484B2 (en) | Intelligent controller providing time to target state | |
US10416627B2 (en) | HVAC control system providing user efficiency-versus-comfort settings that is adaptable for both data-connected and data-unconnected scenarios | |
Gupta et al. | IoT based Smart Home design using power and security management | |
Feng et al. | Smart home: Cognitive interactive people-centric Internet of Things | |
JP6121431B2 (en) | Automatic control schedule acquisition in the intelligent controller | |
Taneja et al. | Enabling advanced environmental conditioning with a building application stack | |
US20190101306A1 (en) | Facilitating structure automation functionality by automatically modifying a condition of an environment based on implementing a parameter adjustment at a remote device within the structure | |
EP2901232B1 (en) | Intelligent controller for an environmental control system | |
Pattarello et al. | Model predictive control of HVAC systems: design and implementation on a real case study |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
HB | Alteration of name in register |
Owner name: GOOGLE LLCFree format text: FORMER NAME(S): GOOGLE, INC. |
|
FGA | Letters patent sealed or granted (standard patent) |