CN105706046A - Surfacing user-specific data records in search - Google Patents
Surfacing user-specific data records in search Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105706046A CN105706046A CN201480053234.0A CN201480053234A CN105706046A CN 105706046 A CN105706046 A CN 105706046A CN 201480053234 A CN201480053234 A CN 201480053234A CN 105706046 A CN105706046 A CN 105706046A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- data record
- display
- search results
- search
- record set
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/953—Querying, e.g. by the use of web search engines
- G06F16/9535—Search customisation based on user profiles and personalisation
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/20—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor of structured data, e.g. relational data
- G06F16/24—Querying
- G06F16/245—Query processing
- G06F16/2455—Query execution
Abstract
Implementations of the present disclosure include actions of receiving search results that are responsive to the search query, the search results being respectively representative of resources, processing one or more triggering rules based on at least one of the search query and the search results, determining, based on processing the one or more triggering rules, that a set of data records is to be displayed in a search results page with the search results, the set of data records including data records that are specific to the user, determining a display prominence of at least one data record in the set of data records, the display prominence indicating a prominence of the at least one data record when displayed in the search results page, and providing the search results and the set of data records for display, the at least one data record being displayed based on the display prominence.
Description
Technical field
This specification relates to display Search Results。
Background technology
The Internet provides the access to the such various resources of such as image file, audio file, video file and webpage。Search system may be in response to inquiry that user submits to and identifies resource and according to the mode that user is useful provides the information relevant with resource。Hereafter user browses the information that (such as clicking) Search Results is interested to obtain user。
The user of search system generally searches for the information relevant with special entity。Such as, user may wish to understand the singer simply heard in the broadcast。Traditionally, user searches for this singer by starting and selects from being confirmed as the search result list relevant to this singer。
Summary of the invention
The realization of the disclosure is generally directed to show user's particular data record with Search Results。More specifically, the realization of the disclosure is for determining video data record set together with Search Results, and determines that the display to data record highlights。
Generally, the novel aspect of theme described in this specification can embody in the following methods, and described method includes action: receiving search inquiry, this search inquiry is customer-furnished；Receiving one or more Search Results that search inquiry is responded, the one or more Search Results represents one or more resource respectively；Based in search inquiry and Search Results, one or more triggering rules are processed by least one；Process based on to one or more triggering rules, it is determined that will together with Search Results in result of page searching the data record set of display, this data record set includes user specific one or multiple data record；Determining that the display at least one the data record in data record set highlights, this display highlights instruction at least one data record prominent when showing in result of page searching；And providing Search Results and data record set with display, at least one data record described is based on display and highlights and show。Other of this aspect realizes including being configured to the execution correspondence system of action of method coded on computer memory device, device and computer program。
It is one or more that each of these and other realization can optionally include in following characteristics: display is prominent indicates at least one data record position within result of page searching；Display is prominent indicates at least one data record visual effect within result of page searching；Determine display at least one comprising determining that in the time and date being associated with at least one data record prominent, and determine that display is prominent based at least one in time and date and threshold time；Exceed threshold time in response to time difference, will show that projecting is the first value, this time difference be based in time and date described at least one determine；And will show that projecting is the second value in response to time difference not less than threshold time；Make all data records in data record set highlight with display to be associated；The one or more triggers the triggering rule in rule based on whether explicit knowledge's panel triggers the display to data record set in response to search inquiry；The one or more triggering rule triggered in rule whether includes personal search result based on Search Results and whether the electronic document corresponding with personal search result also records the corresponding display triggered data record set with data；Whether the rule that triggers in one or more triggering rules triggers the display to data record set with the information match provided in the data record to user institute specifically data record superset based on the lexical item in search inquiry；Thering is provided Search Results and data record set to include providing Search Results show with display, this Search Results show that being used for showing that Search Results and data record set, at least one data record described are based on shows and highlight and be shown within Search Results shows。
The specific implementation of in this specification described theme can be realized so that what realize in advantages below is one or more。In some instances, it is assumed that such as keyword, phrase, the such search inquiry of problem are supplied to search system, it may be determined that the intention of user and specific with this user-dependent user (such as, individual) can be provided Search Results。In some instances, the intention of the user submitting search inquiry to can be determined based on generic search (such as, be not specific user specific common search result)。In this manner it is achieved that trigger the display to data record can reflect the intention of user more accurately。
From the description below, accompanying drawing and claim learn the further feature of this theme, aspect and advantage with will be apparent to。
Accompanying drawing explanation
Fig. 1 is the block diagram that search system provides the example context of search service。
Fig. 2 A and 2B depicts each exemplary search results including data record and shows。
Fig. 3 is the flow chart of the example process for the data record in Search Results。
Same reference numbers and labelling in each accompanying drawing indicate same unit。
Detailed description of the invention
Fig. 1 is the block diagram that search system 120 provides the example context 100 of search service。Example context 100 includes such as LAN (LAN), wide area network (WAN), the Internet or its such network 102 of combination, connects website 104, subscriber equipment 106 and search system 120。In some instances, network 102 can be accessed by wiredly and/or wirelessly communication link。Such as, the available cellular network of the such mobile computing device of such as smart phone accesses network。Environment 100 can include millions of websites 104 and subscriber equipment 106。
In some instances, website 104 is as that be associated with domain name and provided by one or more resources 105 of one or more trust server。Example web sites is the set of the webpage formatted according to the such suitable machine-readable language comprising text, image, content of multimedia and the such programmed element of such as script of such as HTML (HTML)。Each website 104 is by such as managing and/or have the such publisher's maintenance of entity of website 104。
In some instances, resource 105 is data that are that provided by network 102 and that be associated with such as URL (URL) such resource address。In some instances, the resource 105 that can be provided by website 104 includes webpage, word processing document and Portable Document format (PDF) document, image, video and feeding source, especially suitably digital content。Resource 105 can include the such as such content of word, phrase, image and sound and can include the such embedded information of such as metamessage and hyperlink and/or the such embedded instruction of such as script。
In some instances, subscriber equipment 106 is under the control of the user and can be asked by network 102 and be received the electronic equipment of resource 105。Exemplary user equipment 106 includes personal computer, the such mobile computing device of such as smart mobile phone and/or can be sent and be received the tablet computing device of data by network 102。As in the document from start to finish use, term mobile computing device (" mobile equipment ") refers to and is configured to the subscriber equipment that mobile communications network communicates。Such as phone is such can be the example moving equipment by the smart mobile phone that the Internet communicates。Subscriber equipment 106 typically comprises the such user's application being easy to be sent and received data by network 102 of such as web browser。
In some instances, for the ease of searching resource 105, search system 120 identifies resource 105 by crawling and index the resource 105 provided on website 104。Based on the resource corresponding with data, the data relevant with resource 105 can be indexed。That index and the optionally resource 105 of high-speed cache copy is stored in search index 122。
Search inquiry 109 is submitted to search system 120 by subscriber equipment 106。In some instances, subscriber equipment 106 can include one or more input pattern。Example modes can include keyboard, touch screen and/or mike。Such as, user can use keyboard and/or touch screen to key in search inquiry。As another example, user can say search inquiry, and the words that user says are by microphones capture and pass through voice recognition processing to provide search inquiry。
In response to receiving search inquiry 109, search system 120 accesses search index 122 to identify and the resource 105 of search inquiry 109 relevant (such as, at least having minimum appointment relevance scores)。Search system 120 identifies resource 105, generates the Search Results including the Search Results 112 for identifying resource 105 and shows 111, and Search Results showing, 111 return to subscriber equipment 106。In example context, Search Results shows can include such a or multiple webpage of such as one or more result of page searching。In some instances, can based on providing webpage by the web document write of any suitable machine-readable language。It is, however, contemplated that be that the realization of the disclosure can include other suitable display type。Such as, Search Results may be provided in the display generated in the display generated by the application performed on the computing device and/or by the such operating system of such as Mobile operating system。In some instances, Search Results can be based on the such any appropriate format of such as Javascript-html, plaintext provides。
Search Results 112 is for identifying the data that the search system 120 of the resource 105 that particular search query is responded generates, and the link included to resource 105。Exemplary search results 112 can include web page title, extract from webpage word fragment or the URL of a part for image and webpage。In some instances, can from resource data store library searching to the data provided Search Results 112。Such as, search system 120 can provide for the Search Results of display Search Results 112 and shows 111。In some instances, Search Results show 111 can be filled with such as web page title, the such information provided from resource data store storehouse of a part of the word fragment that extracts from webpage or image。
In some instances, the data of search inquiry 109 submitted during user conversation are stored in the such as such data repository in history data store storehouse 124。Such as, received search inquiry can be stored in history data store storehouse 124 by search system 120。
In some instances, for instance, the selection data being used for the action that specified response carries out in following Search Results 112 are also stored in history data store storehouse 124 by search system 120, and described Search Results 112 is in response to what each search inquiry 109 provided。These actions may include whether to select Search Results 112 (such as, utilizing indicator to click or hovering)。Each selection for Search Results 112, selects data to may also include the data for being identified as the search inquiry 109 which providing Search Results 112。
Realization according to the disclosure, example context 100 also includes communicatively being coupled with search system 120 digital data recording system 130 of (such as, direct-coupling or by the such network coupling of such as network 102)。In some instances, search system 120 can be mutual with digital data recording system 130 to provide user institute specific one or the multiple data record of submitting search inquiry 109 to。In some instances, digital data recording system 130 can provide, based on being stored in data acknowledgment number, the data record being included within Search Results 112 according to the data record in thesaurus 132。In some instances, data acknowledgment number can include the specific information of user institute of submission search inquiry 109 according to thesaurus 132。In some instances, data acknowledgment number can include these data for many different users according to thesaurus 132。In some instances, data acknowledgment number can be the specific exclusive data thesaurus of user institute submitting search inquiry 109 to according to thesaurus 132。
In some implementations, digital data recording system 130 can receive the mark of the search inquiry from search system 120 and user。Such as, user can sign in the search service for providing search system 120。In the response, digital data recording system 130 can provide data record set to search system 120。In some instances, this data record set can include one or more data record。
In some implementations, digital data recording system 130 can provide and can show the data record set of display in 111 at Search Results。In some instances, it is determined that show that at Search Results the display of the one or more data records within 111 highlights。In some instances, search system 120 determines that this display highlights。In some instances, digital data recording system 130 determines that this display highlights。In some instances, display is prominent can include each data record and show the position within 111 at Search Results and/or can add Search Results to and show the visual effect on the data record within 111。Such as, can show that top (such as, above Search Results) the video data record of 111 is so that can to user's video data record highlightedly at Search Results。As another example, and the sidepiece that can show at Search Results (such as, left-hand side, right-hand side) video data record, in order to if such as showing data record at top, then to user less prominent ground video data record。
In some instances, search system 120 generates Search Results based on the digital content retrieved and shows 111。In this manner it is achieved that such as show that the Search Results 112 provided in 111 can be to the user's customization submitting search inquiry 109 at Search Results。
In some instances, data record can be user specific and the one or more electronic documents being associated with user can be based on and generate。Such as, electronic document can include the data that can be used for filling data record。Exemplary electron document can include email message, instant message (IM), short-message system (SMS) message, social networks model, word processing file, such as image recognition, the image of optical character recognition etc, bar code, electronic agenda item, electronic meeting invitation, audio frequency transcript or other suitable information source。
In some instances, electronic document can be associated with classification。Example categories can include tourism (such as, travel reservation), stay (such as, hotel reservation), business (such as, product buy), event (such as, theatrical performances, film, concert, competitive sports) and dining room (such as, dining room is subscribed)。In some instances, electronic document can pass on book confirnation, tour schedule arrangement, hotel reservation confirmation, shipping order, order to follow the tracks of the data updating, buying receipt, dining room reservation confirmation or other appropriate format。In some instances, the classification of electronic document can be determined based on the identifier provided in an electronic document and/or data。
In some instances, data record can be that classification institute is specific, and the field in multiple field can be relevant with classification。Such as, data record can be flight reservation classification institute specific and can include such as confirming number, flight number, departure airfield, arrive at the airport, sailing date/time, date of arrival/time such classification particular data field。As another example, data record can be hotel reservation classification institute specific and such as reservation number can be included, move in the date, the date of checking out, rent, the such classification particular data field of room type。As another example, data record can be that to buy classification institute specific and can include such as name of product, product identifiers, quantity, cost, the Shipping Date of estimation, actual Shipping Date, the tracking such classification particular data field of number。
Once fill, data record can be stored in such as data acknowledgment number according in the such data storage bank of thesaurus 132。In some implementations, data storage bank can include the one or more forms in one or more data base, one or more flat file or these combination and other appropriate format any of storage and retrieval for such as data record such information。
The realization of the disclosure is generally directed to determine whether the one or more data records in display Search Results, and determines that the display being associated with each data record highlights。In some implementations, and as discussed in detail here, it is provided that one or more trigger rule, this triggering rule is processed to determine whether show one or more data record。In some instances, can process search inquiry and one or more data record to determine that the display to the one or more data records to show highlights。In some instances, also can process additional data to determine that display is prominent。
Discuss in more detail herein with reference to example context realization of this disclosure。Example context includes the data record being associated with flight reservation classification。It is, however, contemplated that be that the realization of the disclosure may be provided in other environment。Such as, the realization of the disclosure can have with tourism (such as, the predetermined classification of flight), stay (such as, hotel reservation), business (such as, buy product), event (such as, theatrical performances, film, concert, competitive sports) and dining room (such as, dining room subscribe) data record of being associated。
Agreed to by user and by systematic collection and use user profile, for instance, with the social networks of user, social action or activity, occupation, the hobby of user, user the relevant information in current location。User will obtain agreeing to whether collect the such a chance of user profile。User may choose whether and/or how to receive to be likely to the content more relevant with user。It addition, in storage or according to one or more modes, it can be processed before using some data, in order to it is anonymous, in order to remove individual can identification information, and/or so that it is encrypted。
Realization according to the disclosure, search inquiry can be submitted to search service (such as, search inquiry 109 being submitted to search system 120) by user。In some instances, the superset of search inquiry and data record is processed to determine whether video data record set。In some instances, the superset of data record includes the specific data record of user institute of submission search inquiry。In some instances, data record set is the subset of the superset of data record。In some instances, data record set includes one or more data record。In some instances, the superset of data record includes the specific data record of user's (such as, submitting the user of search inquiry to) institute。
In some instances, the record data of the superset of data record can be confirmed as relevant with search inquiry。Such as, if to be confirmed as search inquiry relevant for data record, then make this data record be included among data record set。With reference to example context, sample search query can include [flight]。In this example, user view is not likely to be clearly, for instance, the intention of the retrieval specific Search Results of user or retrieval generally search for the intention of result。In some instances, sample search query can be more specifically, for instance [flight from San Francisco to Austin], [China General Aviation Corp's flight]。In this example, the intention of user is probably clearly, for instance, the intention of the retrieval specific Search Results of user。In response to this search inquiry, the data record relevant with the flight reservation that user carries out can be provided in data record set。
Based on one or more triggering rules, realization according to the disclosure, can determine that whether data record is relevant with search inquiry。In some instances, trigger rule and define condition set, if wherein each condition is genuine, then make one or more data records of the superset from data record be included among the data record set to show。In some instances, condition set can include one or more condition。Below with reference to example context, example is triggered rule to discuss in more detail。It is expected that example triggers regular applicable in other environment。
Example triggers rule and may be based on whether that explicit knowledge's panel triggers the display to data record set in response to search inquiry。In some instances, search inquiry can be processed and can be determined whether explicit knowledge's panel by knowledge panel system。In some instances, knowledge panel system can provide signal to search system and/or digital data recording system, and this signal designation will explicit knowledge's panel。
In some instances, can be have been determined as providing knowledge panel with reference to the inquiry of special entity (such as people, place, country, landmark building, animal, historical events, tissue, shop, sports team, competitive sports, film, song, special edition, game, the art work or other suitable entity any)。Such as, one or more theme can be determined from the search inquiry submitted to, and can determine that one or more theme is corresponding with the theme that knowledge panel can be used for。As response, knowledge panel can be triggered with display。
Generally, the knowledge panel of special entity can include the content relevant with special entity。In some implementations, knowledge panel includes being considered and the fact that special entity is relevant information collection。As an example, sample search query [AUS flight] may result in knowledge panel and is displayed in Search Results。In this example, knowledge panel can include reflection and arrives Austin, TX and/or from the content of the airline flights of Austin, TX (city of such as, setting out, arrive city, duration flight, airline)。
If example trigger rule could dictate that if in response to search inquiry and want explicit knowledge's panel and the information that will show in knowledge panel corresponding with the data provided in the data record of the superset at data record, then by video data record set。Continue this example context, sample search query [Austin's flight] can be received。In some instances, it is possible to provide additional lexical item。Such as, it is possible to provide International Air Transport Association (IATA) airport code of Austin International airport, it is AUS。Can determine that will explicit knowledge's panel。Such as, can receiving signal, this signal designation will explicit knowledge's panel。In response to determine will explicit knowledge's panel, information and the information provided in the data record of the superset of data record can be compared。In this example context, IATA code AUS can be compared with the from provided in data record and/or arrival urban information。In this example, if providing IATA code AUS in data record, then make data record be included in data record set to show together with Search Results。
Whether another example triggers rule can trigger the display to data record set with the information match that provides in the data record of the superset at data record based on the lexical item in search inquiry。In some instances, if coupling is to mate completely, then determine the lexical item in search inquiry and information match。Continue this example context, it is possible to receive sample search query [AUS flight]。Search terms AUS can be compared with the IATA airport code provided in data record。If data record includes IATA airport code AUS (boat of such as, setting out station, arrival boat station), then make this data record be included in the data record set to show。
Another example triggers rule can trigger the display to data record set based on the Search Results provided in response to search inquiry。In some instances, if corresponding with the information that one or more Search Results are associated and the data provided in the data record of the superset of data record, then will video data record set。Continuing this example context, it is possible to receive sample search query [China General Aviation Corp], wherein " China General Aviation Corp " is as supposing that airline provides。The Search Results that sample search query is responded can be received。In some instances, it may be determined that go out in Search Results, provide the website being associated with China General Aviation Corp, for instance, the website of China General Aviation Corp。As response, it is provided that the IATA airline code (such as, GW) of China General Aviation Corp and it can being compared with the IATA airline code in the data record of the superset of data record。If data record includes IATA airline code GA, then make this data record be included in the data record set to show。
Continuing this example context, whether another example triggering rule can include the airliner number corresponding with the Flight Information provided in the data record of data record superset based on search inquiry is triggered the display to data record set。In some instances, if at least one in the flight number of search inquiry and IATA airline code records corresponding with data, then make this data record be included among the data record set to show。In some instances, if the flight number of search inquiry and IATA airline code all record corresponding with data, then make this data record be included among the data record set to show。Sample search query [GA432] can be received。Can flight number and/or IATA airline code to providing in search terms GA and 432 and data record compare respectively。
Another example trigger rule can based on the search inquiry that search inquiry is responded and/or Search Results whether with the classification of data record about, whether Search Results that search inquiry is responded corresponding with the information provided in data record and whether explicit knowledge's panel is triggered the display to data record set。Such as, this example triggers rule and can specify that if search inquiry and/or Search Results are relevant with the classification of data record, if if Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record and not explicit knowledge's panel, then by video data record set。In this manner it is achieved that based on received search inquiry and Search Results that search inquiry is responded can impliedly determine to data record display whether be of value to user。
In some instances, it is possible to search inquiry is processed and may identify which the one or more classifications being associated with search inquiry。If the classification of the classification in one or more classifications and data record discussed above matches, then can determine that search inquiry is relevant with the classification of data record。In some instances, it is possible to the Search Results shown in response to search inquiry is processed and may identify which the one or more classifications being associated with Search Results。If the classification of the classification in one or more classifications and data record discussed above matches, then can determine that search inquiry is relevant with the classification of data record。
In some instances, each Search Results can have one or more classifications related to this。Such as, the website of airline can be associated with flight classification。Therefore, corresponding with this website Search Results can be associated with flight classification with transferring to。In some instances, class hierarchies may be provided as primary categories, second category or the 3rd classification。In some instances, analog value can be distributed to each class hierarchies respectively, for instance 2,1,0。In some instances, the class hierarchies of Search Results can be sued for peace integrally to provide total class hierarchies to Search Results。As it has been described above, Search Results can be associated with one or more classifications。Therefore, it is possible to provide corresponding one or more total class hierarchies。
In some instances, it is possible to compare to determine whether Search Results is corresponding with particular category on the whole with threshold category rank to each total class hierarchies。In some instances, if class hierarchies exceedes threshold category rank, then determine that Search Results is associated with particular category on the whole。
In some instances, it is possible to determine that Search Results is whether corresponding with the information that provides in data record based on the one or more positions being associated with each Search Results。In some instances, Search Results can be associated with position。In some instances, position can provide as city (such as Austin)。In some instances, position can be provide as coordinate (such as, latitude and longitude)。In some instances, ignoring following Search Results, this Search Results has the position being confirmed as submitting to the position of search inquiry nearest from user。Such as, user can be located at San Francisco and can submit sample search query [going to Texas knob on foot] to。As discussed below, the exemplary search results this search inquiry responded can include with in the middle part of Texas (such as, Texas knob) near the Search Results that is associated of position。In some instances, Search Results can also include with San Francisco near the Search Results that is associated of position (such as, sell equip on foot retailer)。In this example, example triggering rule ignores the immediate Search Results in position submitting search inquiry from user to。
In some instances, it is possible to based on the position score determining each position with the nearness of another location。In some instances, as discussed above, it is possible to determine position based on the determined classification corresponding with Search Results。Such as, if it is determined that go out Search Results corresponding with flight classification, then position can include airport。If position score has exceeded threshold score for the another location in the data record of data record superset, then can determine that Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record。In some instances, if the number of the Search Results corresponding with the information provided in data record has exceeded the threshold number of Search Results, then determine that Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record on the whole。
Continue this example context, it is possible to receive sample search query [going to Texas knob on foot], and Search Results can be provided。In some instances, Search Results can be associated with trails on foot, park, amenities and/or the outdoor equipment retailer being associated with Texas knob。One or more Search Results can be associated with the city residing for the city residing for such as outdoor equipment retailer, on foot trails and/or the such position of coordinate。Can determine that the position on airport (such as, AUS) and can to its with and the position that is associated of Search Results compare to provide relevant position score。In some instances, airport is to provide as the airport (such as, airport of destination) of arriving at provided in data record。
In some instances, positional information can be processed to provide position score by the service of position score。In some instances, it is possible to determine position score based on the distance between airport (such as, AUS) and the position of Search Results。In some instances, can have the score higher than the position away from airport near the position on airport。In some instances, the scope of position score can between minima (such as, 0) Yu maximum (such as, 1)。In some instances, if the distance between the position being associated with Search Results and airport exceedes first threshold poor (such as, 100 miles), then the position score of this Search Results is equal to minima。In some instances, if the distance between the position being associated with Search Results and airport poor less than Second Threshold (such as, 10 miles), then the position of this Search Results is equal to maximum。
The example continued the above, it is possible to receive sample search query [going to Texas knob on foot], and five exemplary search results that this search inquiry is responded can be provided。Five exemplary search results can include the first retailer from AUS8 mile, the second retailer from AUS40 mile, first public place of entertainment from AUS70 mile, second public place of entertainment from AUS110 mile and the trails on foot from AUS50 mile。Relevant position score can be provided for each exemplary search results。Such as, the primary importance score being associated with the first retailer can be equal to maximum (such as, 1), the second position score being associated with the second retailer can be equal to the value between minima and maximum, the 3rd position score being associated with first public place of entertainment can be equal to the value between minima and maximum, the 4th position score being associated with second public place of entertainment can be equal to minima (such as, 0) the 5th position score, and with trails being on foot associated can be equal to the value between minima and maximum。
As discussed above, each position score can comparing to threshold score to determine, whether corresponding Search Results is corresponding with the information that provides in data record superset。More specifically, if the position score being associated with Search Results exceedes threshold score, then determine that Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record。If the position score being associated with Search Results is less than threshold score, then determine that the Asymmetry information provided in Search Results and data record should。The example continued the above, it may be determined that each going out primary importance score, second position score, the 3rd position score and the 5th position score exceedes threshold score。Accordingly, it is determined that it is corresponding with the information provided in data record to go out corresponding Search Results。
As discussed above, it may be determined that go out Search Results corresponding with the information provided in data record on the whole。More specifically, if the number of the Search Results corresponding with the information provided in data record has exceeded the threshold number of Search Results, then determine that Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record on the whole。The example continued the above, the example threshold data of Search Results may be provided as three。In this example, because determining that each of primary importance score, second position score, the 3rd position score and the 5th position score exceedes threshold score, the number of the Search Results corresponding with the information provided in data record is equal to four。Therefore, the number of Search Results exceedes the threshold number of Search Results, and determines that Search Results is corresponding with the information provided in data record on the whole, and provides data record set to show in Search Results。
Another example triggers rule can based on whether one or more search terms of search inquiry mate, with one or more triggering keywords, the display triggered data record set completely。In some instances, it is possible to provide the one or more to trigger keyword for respective classes。In example context, example triggers keyword can include " flight (flight) ", " flights (flight) ", " myflight (my flight) ", " myflights (my flight) ", " confirmation (confirmation) " and " booking (reservation) "。In some instances, if search inquiry includes triggering keyword, then video data record set together with Search Results。
In some implementations, Search Results can include personal search result。In some instances, personal search result can include the specific content of following user, and the specific content of described user is that the user institute submitting search inquiry to is specific and search inquiry is responded。In some instances, the content that user generates can include the content using one or more computer implemented services to generate。The service that exemplary computer realizes can include social networking service, electronic messaging services, chatting service, microblogging service, blog services and digital content and share service。In some instances, the content that user generates may be included in electronic information, chat sessions, is published to the model of social network service, is published to the content (such as, photo sharing services) of the service of sharing and/or is published in the content of blog services the content provided。
Realization according to the disclosure, as discussed above, can provide the specific content of user being used for generating in the electronic document of one or more data record。Continuing example context, electronic document can include the confirmation message being sent to user from airline, confirms the flight that user subscribes。In some instances, it is possible to the data record of flight is provided based on electronic document。
In consideration of it, whether another example triggering rule can include personal search result based on Search Results triggers the display to data record set, and personal search result is corresponding with the user's certain content being used for providing data record。Such as, Search Results can include the personal search result of expression electronic document。May determine that and generate the data record in data record superset based on electronic document。Therefore, data record can be included among the data record set shown together with Search Results。
As discussed above, one or more triggering rules can show by trigger data record set together with Search Results, and this data record set includes one or more data record。In some instances, can the data record of display threshold number。For example, it may be determined that X data record can be shown together with Search Results, but the data record of threshold number can include Y data record, and wherein Y is less than X。Therefore, Y data record in X data record is only provided in the data record set to show。In some instances, it is possible to select the data record being included among data record set based on the time。For example, it is possible to provide data record (such as, based on sailing date and time) in chronological order, and a Y data record is included in data record set。In some instances, it is possible to the data record in video data record set in chronological order。
Realization according to the disclosure, after determining and will showing one or more data record, it is determined that each data record is shown prominent。In some instances, identical display is distributed to each data record in data record set prominent。In some instances, each data record in data record set has data record and specifically shows prominent。As described above, this display can include each data record position within Search Results shows and/or can add to Search Results show within data record on visual effect。Such as, can at the top video data record (such as, above Search Results) that Search Results shows, in order to user's video data record highlightedly。As another example, and the sidepiece that can show at Search Results (such as, left-hand side, right-hand side) video data record, in order to if such as showing data record at top, then to user less prominent ground video data record。In some instances, visual effect can include being highlighted, runic, animation and/or can attract the user's attention Search Results show within other suitable visual effect any of data record。
In some implementations, determine that display is prominent based on the one or more times being associated with respective data record and/or date。Example time and/or date can include flight departure time/date, move in hotel time/date and event time/date。In this example context, time and/or date be as flight departure time/date provide。In some instances, if be associated with data record time/date exceeded threshold time (such as, there is provided in units of second, minute, hour and/or sky), so display is prominent be as indicate do not show respective data record highlightedly the first value (such as, 0) provide, for instance the lateral parts shown at Search Results shows and/or do not have visual effect。In some instances, if be associated with data record time/date is not less than threshold time, so display is prominent is as indicating the second value by showing respective data record highlightedly (such as, 1) provide, for instance show at the top that Search Results shows and/or there is visual effect。
Fig. 2 A and 2B depicts the respective examples Search Results display 200a, the 200b that include data record 202,204。In the example of Fig. 2 A and 2B, Search Results display 200a, 200b provide as the such webpage of such as result of page searching。But, the realization of the disclosure can include the display that other is suitable。
Fig. 2 A depicts the exemplary search results display 200a of the data record 202,204 including showing less prominently。Depicted in an arrangement that exemplary search results display 200a, the 200b within web browser, but this is only context and is not meant to the scope of the present disclosure is limited in any one web browser or even relates to the realization of serving web page。Exemplary search results display 200a includes search box 206。In some implementations, search box 206 can be use the text box specified by the such suitable machine-readable language of such as HTML。In the implementation, search box 206 can be the customizable component specified by such as java script another suitable web development language such。Illustrated search box 206 includes search inquiry 208。In the example described, as discussed above, search inquiry includes [China General Aviation Corp], and this assumes that the title of airline。In some instances, search inquiry 208 can be keyed in by user。In some instances, it is possible to programmably receive search inquiry 208 by application programming interface (API) or other suitable method。Illustrated search box 206 is also associated with search button 210。In some instances, user can perform the search to search inquiry 208 by activation (such as, clicking) search button 210。This activation can be performed by any suitable mechanism, such as utilizes instruction equipment (such as, mouse) to click search button 210 or the combination of the key pressing on lower keyboard or key。In some instances, search inquiry 208 can automatically be submitted to according to the former state keyed in。
Illustrated Search Results display 200a also includes first user information 212。In illustrated example, first user information 212 indicates user " john.searcher_mail.com " currently to log in。Realization according to the disclosure, the data record provided within Search Results will be that user " john.searcher_mail.com " institute is specific。In some implementations, Search Results display 200a is likely to not include the instruction to active user, but still according to active user, search inquiry 208 can be processed。
Illustrated Search Results display 200a also includes its search results pane including one or more Search Results 222,224,226。In some implementations, search results pane 220 is for making Search Results show, with Search Results, the bulkhead that other pane of 200a is separated。In some implementations, search results pane 220 is that the continuous list as Search Results provides。Illustrated Search Results display 200a includes auxiliary pane 230。Video data record 202,204 in auxiliary pane 230。
In the example of Fig. 2 A, search inquiry 208 [General Aviation] is inputted by user and is processed by search system (such as, the search system 120 of Fig. 1) in view of one or more triggerings are regular。Rule is triggered, it is determined that go out video data record set, and data record 202,204 is included among data record set based on the one or more。In Fig. 2 A example, as discussed above, the prominent rank of data record 202,204 is set to the first prominent rank。Therefore, video data record 202,204 in auxiliary pane 230。Such as, as the flight of the object of data record 202 estimate from submit search inquiry 208 to time/date about 5 sky。Accordingly, it is determined that go out be associated with data record time/date exceedes threshold time (such as, 24 hours), and do not highlight data record 202。In this example, data record 204 can inherit the display to data record 204 highlight。
In the example of Fig. 2 B, search inquiry 208 [China General Aviation Corp] is inputted by user and is processed by search system (such as, the search system 120 of Fig. 1) in view of one or more triggerings are regular。Rule is triggered, it is determined that go out video data record set, and data record 202,204 is included among data record set based on the one or more。Therefore, video data record 202,204 in search results pane 220。In the example of Fig. 2 B, as discussed above, the prominent rank of data record 202,204 is set to the second prominent rank。Such as, as the flight of the object of data record 202 be scheduled from submit search inquiry 208 to time/date about 22 hour。Accordingly, it is determined that go out be associated with data record time/date is not less than threshold time (such as, 24 hours), and highlights data record 202。In this example, data record 204 can inherit the display to data record 204 highlight。Additionally, data record 202 includes motor unit 240 now。In this example, motor unit 240 includes following at user option (can click) button, and described at user option button can make user that the flight of the object as data record 202 is checked in。Such as, select motor unit 240 in response to user, the browsable flight boarding website being associated with China General Aviation Corp of user。
Fig. 3 is the flow chart of the example process 300 for providing content recommendation in Search Results。In some instances, it is possible to use one or more computer executable programs provide process 300, the one or more computer executable program is to use one or more computing equipments to perform。Such as, process 300 such as to be provided by the example context 100 of Fig. 1。
Receive search inquiry (302)。Such as, search inquiry can be received by the search system 120 of Fig. 1。Receive the Search Results (304) based on search inquiry。Such as, search system 120 can receive the Search Results that search inquiry is responded。Based on search inquiry and/or Search Results, one or more triggering rules are processed (306)。Such as, as discussed in detail here, one or more triggering rules can be processed by search system 120 based on search inquiry and/or Search Results。Determine whether will together with Search Results video data record set (308)。Such as, search system 120 may determine whether video data record set。As discussed above, if the one or more at least one triggering rule triggered in rule triggers the display to data record set, then trigger recording collection can be shown。
If not video data record set, then generate Search Results and be displayed without data record set (310)。If will video data record set, then make related data record be included among data record set and determine display prominent (312)。Such as, as discussed in detail here, search system 120 such as can provide data record set by retrieving related data record from digital data recording system 130, and can determine that display is prominent。Generate the Search Results with data record set and show (314)。Such as, search system 120 can generate Search Results and show。Search Results is provided to show to show (316)。Such as, search system 120 can provide Search Results to show, and 111 to show on subscriber equipment 106。
Theme described in this specification and the realization of operation can be in Fundamental Digital Circuit, or in computer software, firmware or hardware (it includes structure disclosed in this specification and equivalent structures thereof), or realize in its one or more combinations。The realization of theme described in this specification can be use one or more computer programs (that is, on computer-readable storage medium coding with that performed by data processing equipment or it operates one or more modules of the computer program instructions being controlled) to realize。Alternatively or additionally, programmed instruction can be the coding of electricity, light or the such manually generated transmitting signal of electromagnetic signal that such as machine is generated, and described manually generated transmitting signal is generated the information performed by data processing equipment being transferred to suitable acceptor device is encoded。Computer-readable storage medium can be or be included in computer readable storage devices, computer-readable storage substrate, the random or combination of serial access memory array or equipment or one or more of which。Although additionally, computer-readable storage medium can not be transmitting signal, but computer-readable storage medium can be source or the destination of computer program instructions coded in manually generated transmitting signal。Computer-readable storage medium can also is that or is included among one or more independent physical assemblies or medium (such as, multiple CD, disc or other storage device)。
Operation described in this specification may be implemented as data processing equipment to that be stored in one or more computer readable storage devices or from the operation performed by the data received by other source。
Term " data processing equipment " includes for processing all types of devices of data, equipment and machine, it include such as programmable processor, computer, SOC(system on a chip) or previously in multiple or its combination。This device can include such as FPGA (field programmable gate array) or ASIC (special IC) such dedicated logic circuit。In addition to hardware, this device could be included for described computer program creates the code (such as, constituting the code of processor firmware, protocol stack, data base management system, operating system, the cross-platform combination running time environment, virtual machine or one or more of which) performing environment。This device and execution environment can realize the such various different computation model frameworks of such as web services, Distributed Calculation and grid computing framework。
Can include compiling or interpretative code, illustrative or procedural language any type of programming language to write computer program (also referred to as program, software, software application, script or code), and it can be disposed with following any form, described any form includes as stand-alone program or module, assembly, subroutine, object or is suitable for other unit used in a computing environment。Computer program can but be not necessary to corresponding with the file in file system。Program can be stored in and keep other program or data (such as, be stored in the one or more scripts in marking language document) file a part in, be stored in the single file that described program is special, or it is stored in multiple coordination file (such as, for storing the file of one or more module, subprogram or code section)。Computer program can be deployed as on a computer or be positioned at the three unities or be distributed in multiple place and by performing on multiple computers of interconnection of telecommunication network。
Process described in this specification and logic flow can be performed by following one or more programmable processors, and the one or more programmable processor is used for performing one or more computer program to perform action by being operated and generate output to input data。This process and logic flow are also implemented as such as FPGA (field programmable gate array) or ASIC (special IC) such dedicated logic circuit。
For example, the processor being adapted for carrying out computer program includes any one or more processors in general and both special microprocessors and any kind of digital computer。Generally, processor will receive from read only memory or random access memory or the instruction and data of both。The element of computer can include the processor for performing action according to instruction and for storing one or more memory devices of instruction and data。Generally, computer also by include or operationally be used for storing data one or more mass-memory units (such as, disk, magneto-optic disk or CD) couple with receive from one or more mass-memory units data or transfer data to one or more mass-memory unit or both。But, computer is not necessary to have such equipment。In addition, computer can be embedded in and name just a few in such as mobile phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), Mobile audio frequency or video player, game console, global positioning system (GPS) receptor or portable memory apparatus (such as, USB (universal serial bus) (USB) flash drive) another equipment such。The equipment being suitable to storage computer program instructions and data includes the nonvolatile memory of form of ownership, medium and memory devices (it includes the semiconductor memory devices of for example such as EPROM, EEPROM and flash memory device)；Disk (such as, internal hard drive or portable hard drive)；Magneto-optic disk；And CD-ROM and DVD-ROM disc。Processor and memorizer can add or be included in dedicated logic circuit。
Mutual in order to what provide with user, the realization of theme described in this specification can realize on following computer, and it is such for displaying to the user that the display device of information, keyboard and the such user of such as mouse or trace ball can provide the instruction equipment of input by it to computer that described computer has such as CRT (cathode ray tube) or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor。It is mutual that other type of equipment can also be used for providing with user。Such as, it is provided that to the feedback of user can be such as visual feedback, auditory feedback or sense of touch feed back such any type of sensory feedback；And any type of input including acoustics, voice or sense of touch input from user can be received。It addition, computer by send documents to equipment that user uses and receive the document of the equipment used from user can be mutual with user；Such as, by webpage being sent to the web browser on user client device in response to from the request received by web browser。
The realization of theme described in this specification can realize in following computing system, described computing system includes such as aft-end assembly as data server, or including the such middleware component of such as application server, or including such as having the user's such front end assemblies of client computer by its graphic user interface that can interact or web browser with the realization of theme described in this specification, or include any combination of one or more this rear end, middleware or front end assemblies。The assembly of this system can be through the digital data communications of the such any form of such as communication network or medium and interconnects。The example of communication network includes (such as, the Internet) and peer-to-peer network (such as, self-organizing peer-to-peer network) between LAN (" LAN ") and wide area network (" WAN "), net。
Computing system can include client and server。Client and server is generally remote from each other and mutual typically via communication network。The relation of client and server is by means of that operate on corresponding computer and have the computer program of client-server relation each other and occur。In some implementations, for instance for video data and receive the user's input from the user interacted with client device, such for such as web document data are sent to client device by server。The data (result that such as, user is mutual) generated on a client device from client device can be received on the server。
Although this description comprises many specific implementation details, but the scope to the disclosure or claimed any realization that this should not be construed as being makes restriction, but rather interpreted that the description to feature specific to example implementation。Some feature described in the environment individually realized can also realize in single realization with being combined in this specification。On the contrary, the various features described in the environment of single realization can also is that individually in multiple realizations or with any suitable sub-portfolio realization。In addition; although describing feature as with certain combinative movement and even initially claimed such protection above; but one or more features of claimed combination can be left out in some cases from this combination, and the combination claimed may refer to the modification of sub-portfolio or sub-portfolio。
Similarly, although be described in the drawings specific order of operation, but should not be construed as and must perform this operation with shown particular order or consecutive order, or should not be construed as the operation having to carry out all explanations to reach desired result。In some cases, multitask and what parallel processing may be advantageous in that。In addition, the separation of each system component in realizing as above should be interpreted as requiring this separation in all realizations, and should be understood that and described program assembly can be integrated in single software product together with system or be encapsulated in multiple software product。
Thus, the specific implementation of this theme is described。Other realizes within the scope of following claims。In some cases, described in the claims action can perform with different order and remain to reach expected result。It addition, the process described in the accompanying drawings not necessarily requires shown particular order or consecutive order to reach expected result。In some implementations, multitask and what parallel processing may be advantageous in that。
Claims (30)
1. the computer implemented method performed by one or more processors, the method includes:
Being received search inquiry by the one or more processor, described search inquiry is customer-furnished；
By the one or more processor, receiving one or more Search Results that described search inquiry is responded, the one or more Search Results represents one or more resource respectively；
By the one or more processor, based in described search inquiry and described Search Results, one or more triggering rules are processed by least one；
Based on the process that the one or more is triggered rule, it is determined that will together with described Search Results in result of page searching the data record set of display, this data record set includes user specific one or multiple data record；
Determining that the display at least one the data record in described data record set highlights, this display highlights the prominent of instruction at least one data record described in when showing in described result of page searching；And
Thering is provided described Search Results and described data record set with display, at least one data record described is based on described display and highlights and show。
2. computer implemented method according to claim 1, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record position within described result of page searching described。
3. computer implemented method according to claim 1, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record visual effect within described result of page searching described。
4. computer implemented method according to claim 1, wherein determines that display is prominent and includes:
Determine at least one in the time and date being associated with at least one data record described；And
Determine that described display highlights based at least one in time and date and threshold time。
5. computer implemented method according to claim 4, wherein:
Exceed described threshold time in response to time difference, by projecting for described display be the first value, described time difference be based in time and date described at least one determine；And
In response to described time difference not less than described threshold time by projecting for described display be the second value。
6. computer implemented method according to claim 1, all data records in wherein said data record set are prominent with described display to be associated。
7. computer implemented method according to claim 1, wherein one or more trigger the triggering rule in rule based on whether explicit knowledge's panel triggers the display to described data record set in response to described search inquiry。
8. computer implemented method according to claim 1, the triggering rule in wherein said one or more triggering rules whether includes personal search result based on described Search Results and whether the electronic document corresponding with described personal search result also records the corresponding display triggered described data record set with data。
9. computer implemented method according to claim 1, whether the rule that triggers in wherein said one or more triggering rules triggers the display to described data record set with the information match provided in the data record to user institute specifically data record superset based on the lexical item in described search inquiry。
10. computer implemented method according to claim 1, described Search Results and described data record set is wherein provided to include providing Search Results to show with display, described Search Results shows that to be used for showing that described Search Results and described data record set, at least one data record described are based on described display prominent and be shown within described Search Results shows。
11. coding has a computer-readable storage medium for computer program, described program to include following instruction, described instruction makes described data processing equipment perform operations described below when being performed by data processing equipment, and described operation includes:
Receiving one or more Search Results that described search inquiry is responded, the one or more Search Results represents one or more resource respectively；
Based at least one in described search inquiry and described Search Results, one or more triggering rules are processed；
Based on the process that the one or more is triggered rule, it is determined that will together with described Search Results in result of page searching the data record set of display, described data record set includes user specific one or multiple data record；
Determining that the display at least one the data record in described data record set highlights, this display highlights the prominent of instruction at least one data record described in when showing in described result of page searching；And
Thering is provided described Search Results and described data record set with display, at least one data record described is based on described display and highlights and show。
12. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record position within described result of page searching described。
13. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record visual effect within described result of page searching described。
14. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein determine that described display is prominent and include:
Determine at least one in the time and date being associated with at least one data record described；And
Determine that described display highlights based at least one and threshold time described in time and date。
15. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 14, wherein:
Exceed described threshold time in response to time difference, by projecting for described display be the first value, described time difference be based in time and date described at least one determine；And
In response to described time difference not less than described threshold time by projecting for described display be the second value。
16. storage medium according to claim 11, all data records in wherein said data record set are prominent with described display to be associated。
17. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, triggering in wherein said one or more triggering rules is regular based on whether explicit knowledge's panel triggers the display to described data record set in response to described search inquiry。
18. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, the triggering rule in wherein said one or more triggering rules whether includes personal search result based on described Search Results and whether the electronic document corresponding with described personal search result also records the corresponding display triggered described data record set with data。
19. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, whether the rule that triggers in wherein said one or more triggering rules triggers the display to described data record set with the information match provided in the data record to user institute specifically data record superset based on the lexical item in described search inquiry。
20. computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, described Search Results and described data record set is wherein provided to include providing Search Results to show with display, described Search Results shows that to be used for showing that described Search Results and described data record set, at least one data record described are based on described display prominent and be shown within described Search Results shows。
21. a system, including:
Data repository, is used for storing data record；And
One or more processors, the one or more processor is configured to interact with described data repository, and the one or more processor is configured to perform operations described below, and described operation includes:
Receiving one or more Search Results that described search inquiry is responded, the one or more Search Results represents one or more resource respectively；
Based at least one in described search inquiry and described Search Results, one or more triggering rules are processed；
Based on the process that the one or more is triggered rule, it is determined that will together with described Search Results in result of page searching the data record set of display, described data record set includes user specific one or multiple data record；
Determining that the display at least one the data record in described data record set highlights, this display highlights the prominent of instruction at least one data record described in when showing in described result of page searching；And
Thering is provided described Search Results and described data record set with display, at least one data record described is based on described display and highlights and show。
22. system according to claim 21, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record position within described result of page searching described。
23. system according to claim 21, wherein said display highlights instruction at least one data record visual effect within described result of page searching described。
24. system according to claim 21, wherein determine that display is prominent and include:
Determine at least one in the time and date being associated with at least one data record described；And
Determine that described display highlights based at least one and threshold time described in time and date。
25. system according to claim 24, wherein:
Exceed described threshold time in response to time difference, by projecting for described display be the first value, described time difference be based in time and date described at least one determine；And
In response to described time difference not less than described threshold time by projecting for described display be the second value。
26. system according to claim 21, all data records in wherein said data record set are prominent with described display to be associated。
27. system according to claim 21, triggering in wherein said one or more triggering rules is regular based on whether explicit knowledge's panel triggers the display to described data record set in response to described search inquiry。
28. system according to claim 21, the triggering rule in wherein said one or more triggering rules whether includes personal search result based on described Search Results and whether the electronic document corresponding with described personal search result also records the corresponding display triggered described data record set with data。
29. system according to claim 21, whether the rule that triggers in wherein said one or more triggering rules triggers the display to described data record set with the information match provided in the data record to user institute specifically data record superset based on the lexical item in described search inquiry。
30. system according to claim 21, described Search Results and described data record set is wherein provided to include providing Search Results to show with display, described Search Results shows that to be used for showing that described Search Results and described data record set, at least one data record described are based on described display prominent and be shown within described Search Results shows。
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201361861634P | 2013-08-02 | 2013-08-02 | |
US61/861,634 | 2013-08-02 | ||
US14/096,183 US9715548B2 (en) | 2013-08-02 | 2013-12-04 | Surfacing user-specific data records in search |
US14/096,183 | 2013-12-04 | ||
PCT/US2014/044069 WO2015017051A2 (en) | 2013-08-02 | 2014-06-25 | Surfacing user-specific data records in search |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105706046A true CN105706046A (en) | 2016-06-22 |
CN105706046B CN105706046B (en) | 2018-10-30 |
Family
ID=52428654
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201480053234.0A Active CN105706046B (en) | 2013-08-02 | 2014-06-25 | User's particular data record in search is presented |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (5) | US9715548B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP3028138A4 (en) |
CN (1) | CN105706046B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2015017051A2 (en) |
Cited By (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN109101469A (en) * | 2017-06-21 | 2018-12-28 | 埃森哲环球解决方案有限公司 | The information that can search for is extracted from digitized document |
Families Citing this family (10)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9772999B2 (en) * | 2011-10-24 | 2017-09-26 | Imagescan, Inc. | Apparatus and method for displaying multiple display panels with a progressive relationship using cognitive pattern recognition |
US10863354B2 (en) | 2014-11-24 | 2020-12-08 | Facebook, Inc. | Automated check-ins |
US10289961B2 (en) * | 2014-11-24 | 2019-05-14 | International Business Machines Corporation | Presenting anticipated user search query results prompted by a trigger |
US10397346B2 (en) | 2014-11-24 | 2019-08-27 | Facebook, Inc. | Prefetching places |
US20160147413A1 (en) * | 2014-11-24 | 2016-05-26 | Facebook, Inc. | Check-in Additions |
US10503377B2 (en) | 2014-11-24 | 2019-12-10 | Facebook, Inc. | Dynamic status indicator |
JP6784085B2 (en) * | 2016-07-27 | 2020-11-11 | 富士通株式会社 | Setting control program, setting control method, and setting control device |
US10824630B2 (en) * | 2016-10-26 | 2020-11-03 | Google Llc | Search and retrieval of structured information cards |
US11093640B2 (en) | 2018-04-12 | 2021-08-17 | International Business Machines Corporation | Augmenting datasets with selected de-identified data records |
US10770171B2 (en) | 2018-04-12 | 2020-09-08 | International Business Machines Corporation | Augmenting datasets using de-identified data and selected authorized records |
Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020107847A1 (en) * | 2000-10-10 | 2002-08-08 | Johnson Carl E. | Method and system for visual internet search engine |
CN101004737A (en) * | 2007-01-24 | 2007-07-25 | 贵阳易特软件有限公司 | Individualized document processing system based on keywords |
CN101017489A (en) * | 2006-02-08 | 2007-08-15 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Knowledge searching method and system based on instant communication |
US20090125482A1 (en) * | 2007-11-12 | 2009-05-14 | Peregrine Vladimir Gluzman | System and method for filtering rules for manipulating search results in a hierarchical search and navigation system |
Family Cites Families (77)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US7181438B1 (en) | 1999-07-21 | 2007-02-20 | Alberti Anemometer, Llc | Database access system |
US6636242B2 (en) * | 1999-08-31 | 2003-10-21 | Accenture Llp | View configurer in a presentation services patterns environment |
US8571885B2 (en) | 2000-12-29 | 2013-10-29 | William T. Andros | Method and system for information retrieval and transfer |
US7730063B2 (en) * | 2002-12-10 | 2010-06-01 | Asset Trust, Inc. | Personalized medicine service |
US7162473B2 (en) * | 2003-06-26 | 2007-01-09 | Microsoft Corporation | Method and system for usage analyzer that determines user accessed sources, indexes data subsets, and associated metadata, processing implicit queries based on potential interest to users |
US7225187B2 (en) * | 2003-06-26 | 2007-05-29 | Microsoft Corporation | Systems and methods for performing background queries from content and activity |
US7526768B2 (en) * | 2004-02-04 | 2009-04-28 | Microsoft Corporation | Cross-pollination of multiple sync sources |
US20080040315A1 (en) * | 2004-03-31 | 2008-02-14 | Auerbach David B | Systems and methods for generating a user interface |
US7664734B2 (en) | 2004-03-31 | 2010-02-16 | Google Inc. | Systems and methods for generating multiple implicit search queries |
US8090698B2 (en) | 2004-05-07 | 2012-01-03 | Ebay Inc. | Method and system to facilitate a search of an information resource |
US8156116B2 (en) * | 2006-07-31 | 2012-04-10 | Ricoh Co., Ltd | Dynamic presentation of targeted information in a mixed media reality recognition system |
US20140236978A1 (en) * | 2004-12-03 | 2014-08-21 | Google Inc. | Publishing techniques for adding value to a rendered document |
US7577651B2 (en) * | 2005-04-28 | 2009-08-18 | Yahoo! Inc. | System and method for providing temporal search results in response to a search query |
US20070061712A1 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2007-03-15 | Bodin William K | Management and rendering of calendar data |
US20100257160A1 (en) * | 2006-06-07 | 2010-10-07 | Yu Cao | Methods & apparatus for searching with awareness of different types of information |
US20080189273A1 (en) * | 2006-06-07 | 2008-08-07 | Digital Mandate, Llc | System and method for utilizing advanced search and highlighting techniques for isolating subsets of relevant content data |
US8364669B1 (en) * | 2006-07-21 | 2013-01-29 | Aol Inc. | Popularity of content items |
US9318108B2 (en) * | 2010-01-18 | 2016-04-19 | Apple Inc. | Intelligent automated assistant |
US8271429B2 (en) * | 2006-09-11 | 2012-09-18 | Wiredset Llc | System and method for collecting and processing data |
WO2008034213A1 (en) * | 2006-09-18 | 2008-03-27 | Infobright Inc. | A method and system for data compression in a relational database |
US20080201227A1 (en) * | 2006-11-07 | 2008-08-21 | Lucia Urban Bakewell | Interactive, Internet-based, trip planning, travel resource, travel community, virtual travel, travel-based education, travel-related gaming and virtual/live tour system, methods, and processes, emphasizing a user's ability to tailor complete travel, trip, route, game and touring choices to unique user-specified personal interests, preferences, and special requirements for self and companions |
US9477969B2 (en) * | 2006-12-12 | 2016-10-25 | Yahoo! Inc. | Automatic feed creation for non-feed enabled information objects |
US8166026B1 (en) | 2006-12-26 | 2012-04-24 | uAffect.org LLC | User-centric, user-weighted method and apparatus for improving relevance and analysis of information sharing and searching |
US7693902B2 (en) * | 2007-05-02 | 2010-04-06 | Yahoo! Inc. | Enabling clustered search processing via text messaging |
US7899777B2 (en) * | 2007-09-27 | 2011-03-01 | Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc. | Web-based visualization mash-ups for industrial automation |
US20100241663A1 (en) * | 2008-02-07 | 2010-09-23 | Microsoft Corporation | Providing content items selected based on context |
US20090287701A1 (en) * | 2008-05-14 | 2009-11-19 | Orbitz Worldwide, L.L.C. | System and Method for Receiving and Displaying User Inputted Travel-Related Messages |
US8429111B1 (en) * | 2008-08-04 | 2013-04-23 | Zscaler, Inc. | Encoding and compression of statistical data |
US8060524B2 (en) * | 2008-12-11 | 2011-11-15 | Microsoft Corporation | History answer for re-finding search results |
US8539343B2 (en) * | 2008-12-16 | 2013-09-17 | SAP France S.A. | Calculating uniqueness coefficients for data objects and displaying the data objects in a layout based on the uniqueness coefficient |
US8600577B2 (en) * | 2008-12-29 | 2013-12-03 | Motorola Mobility Llc | Navigation system and methods for generating enhanced search results |
US9043148B2 (en) * | 2008-12-29 | 2015-05-26 | Google Technology Holdings LLC | Navigation system and methods for generating enhanced search results |
US8126904B1 (en) * | 2009-02-09 | 2012-02-28 | Repio, Inc. | System and method for managing digital footprints |
US20100306249A1 (en) * | 2009-05-27 | 2010-12-02 | James Hill | Social network systems and methods |
US20110055062A1 (en) * | 2009-07-02 | 2011-03-03 | Rps Holdings, Inc. | Activity Scheduling and Clearinghouse System |
CA2714523A1 (en) * | 2009-09-02 | 2011-03-02 | Sophia Learning, Llc | Teaching and learning system |
US20110196864A1 (en) | 2009-09-03 | 2011-08-11 | Steve Mason | Apparatuses, methods and systems for a visual query builder |
US8386454B2 (en) * | 2009-09-20 | 2013-02-26 | Yahoo! Inc. | Systems and methods for providing advanced search result page content |
US8977639B2 (en) * | 2009-12-02 | 2015-03-10 | Google Inc. | Actionable search results for visual queries |
US8400334B2 (en) * | 2009-12-31 | 2013-03-19 | Thomson Reuters Global Resources (Trgr) | Asymmetric dictionary-based compression/decompression useful for broadcast or multicast unidirectional communication channels |
US10156954B2 (en) | 2010-01-29 | 2018-12-18 | Oracle International Corporation | Collapsible search results |
US8433764B2 (en) * | 2010-02-09 | 2013-04-30 | Google Inc. | Identification of message recipients |
US8832101B2 (en) * | 2010-02-18 | 2014-09-09 | Yahoo! Inc. | Automated user behavior feedback system for whole page search success optimization |
US20120212484A1 (en) * | 2010-02-28 | 2012-08-23 | Osterhout Group, Inc. | System and method for display content placement using distance and location information |
US8838586B2 (en) * | 2010-03-05 | 2014-09-16 | Apple Inc. | Relevancy ranking for map-related search |
US8732208B2 (en) * | 2010-04-19 | 2014-05-20 | Facebook, Inc. | Structured search queries based on social-graph information |
WO2011146946A2 (en) * | 2010-05-21 | 2011-11-24 | Live Matrix, Inc. | Interactive calendar of scheduled web-based events and temporal indices of the web that associate index elements with metadata |
US8584011B2 (en) * | 2010-06-22 | 2013-11-12 | Microsoft Corporation | Document representation transitioning |
US8600979B2 (en) * | 2010-06-28 | 2013-12-03 | Yahoo! Inc. | Infinite browse |
US8478519B2 (en) * | 2010-08-30 | 2013-07-02 | Google Inc. | Providing results to parameterless search queries |
WO2012033498A1 (en) * | 2010-09-10 | 2012-03-15 | Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. | Systems and methods for data compression |
US20120278837A1 (en) * | 2011-04-29 | 2012-11-01 | Sling Media Inc. | Presenting related content during a placeshifting session |
US9342605B2 (en) * | 2011-06-13 | 2016-05-17 | Facebook, Inc. | Client-side modification of search results based on social network data |
US8812474B2 (en) * | 2011-07-14 | 2014-08-19 | Nuance Communications, Inc. | Methods and apparatus for identifying and providing information sought by a user |
US20130054558A1 (en) * | 2011-08-29 | 2013-02-28 | Microsoft Corporation | Updated information provisioning |
US9335883B2 (en) * | 2011-09-08 | 2016-05-10 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Presenting search result items having varied prominence |
US20130086499A1 (en) * | 2011-09-30 | 2013-04-04 | Matthew G. Dyor | Presenting auxiliary content in a gesture-based system |
US20130086025A1 (en) * | 2011-09-30 | 2013-04-04 | Nuance Communications, Inc. | Techniques for receiving and processing one or more user-specified queries |
US20130106683A1 (en) * | 2011-10-31 | 2013-05-02 | Elwha LLC, a limited liability company of the State of Delaware | Context-sensitive query enrichment |
US20130212487A1 (en) * | 2012-01-09 | 2013-08-15 | Visa International Service Association | Dynamic Page Content and Layouts Apparatuses, Methods and Systems |
US8965876B2 (en) * | 2012-01-18 | 2015-02-24 | Yahoo! Inc. | Ecosystem for manually marked searchable feeds on publisher sites |
US20130198171A1 (en) * | 2012-01-26 | 2013-08-01 | Microsoft Corporation | Method and system for managing database object information |
US9495462B2 (en) * | 2012-01-27 | 2016-11-15 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Re-ranking search results |
US8671123B2 (en) * | 2012-02-01 | 2014-03-11 | Microsoft Corporation | Contextual icon-oriented search tool |
US8996530B2 (en) * | 2012-04-27 | 2015-03-31 | Yahoo! Inc. | User modeling for personalized generalized content recommendations |
US9552596B2 (en) * | 2012-07-12 | 2017-01-24 | Spritz Technology, Inc. | Tracking content through serial presentation |
US9244977B2 (en) * | 2012-12-31 | 2016-01-26 | Google Inc. | Using content identification as context for search |
US10007933B2 (en) * | 2013-02-22 | 2018-06-26 | Swoop Inc. | Systems and methods for integrating dynamic content into electronic media |
US10572476B2 (en) * | 2013-03-14 | 2020-02-25 | Apple Inc. | Refining a search based on schedule items |
US10102307B2 (en) * | 2013-03-15 | 2018-10-16 | Oath Inc. | Method and system for multi-phase ranking for content personalization |
CN105474157A (en) * | 2013-05-09 | 2016-04-06 | 亚马逊技术股份有限公司 | Mobile device interfaces |
US20150012524A1 (en) * | 2013-07-02 | 2015-01-08 | Google Inc. | Using models for triggering personal search |
US9128968B2 (en) * | 2013-07-25 | 2015-09-08 | Facebook, Inc. | Systems and methods for data compression |
US20150058324A1 (en) * | 2013-08-19 | 2015-02-26 | Joseph Gregory Kauwe | Systems and methods of enabling integrated activity scheduling, sharing and real-time social connectivity through an event-sharing platform |
US10311154B2 (en) * | 2013-09-21 | 2019-06-04 | Oracle International Corporation | Combined row and columnar storage for in-memory databases for OLTP and analytics workloads |
US20150100509A1 (en) * | 2013-10-09 | 2015-04-09 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Systems and methods for enhancing user engagement |
US9489409B2 (en) * | 2013-10-17 | 2016-11-08 | Sybase, Inc. | Rollover strategies in a N-bit dictionary compressed column store |
-
2013
- 2013-12-04 US US14/096,183 patent/US9715548B2/en not_active Expired - Fee Related
-
2014
- 2014-06-25 EP EP14832776.0A patent/EP3028138A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2014-06-25 CN CN201480053234.0A patent/CN105706046B/en active Active
- 2014-06-25 WO PCT/US2014/044069 patent/WO2015017051A2/en active Application Filing
-
2017
- 2017-06-20 US US15/627,781 patent/US10162903B2/en active Active
-
2018
- 2018-12-21 US US16/229,314 patent/US10740422B2/en active Active
-
2020
- 2020-07-01 US US16/918,751 patent/US11809503B2/en active Active
-
2023
- 2023-10-06 US US18/377,662 patent/US20240037162A1/en active Pending
Patent Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020107847A1 (en) * | 2000-10-10 | 2002-08-08 | Johnson Carl E. | Method and system for visual internet search engine |
CN101017489A (en) * | 2006-02-08 | 2007-08-15 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Knowledge searching method and system based on instant communication |
CN101004737A (en) * | 2007-01-24 | 2007-07-25 | 贵阳易特软件有限公司 | Individualized document processing system based on keywords |
US20090125482A1 (en) * | 2007-11-12 | 2009-05-14 | Peregrine Vladimir Gluzman | System and method for filtering rules for manipulating search results in a hierarchical search and navigation system |
Cited By (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN109101469A (en) * | 2017-06-21 | 2018-12-28 | 埃森哲环球解决方案有限公司 | The information that can search for is extracted from digitized document |
CN109101469B (en) * | 2017-06-21 | 2022-07-05 | 埃森哲环球解决方案有限公司 | Extracting searchable information from digitized documents |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20170286556A1 (en) | 2017-10-05 |
CN105706046B (en) | 2018-10-30 |
US10740422B2 (en) | 2020-08-11 |
US20200334311A1 (en) | 2020-10-22 |
US20240037162A1 (en) | 2024-02-01 |
US20150039647A1 (en) | 2015-02-05 |
US9715548B2 (en) | 2017-07-25 |
WO2015017051A3 (en) | 2015-10-29 |
WO2015017051A2 (en) | 2015-02-05 |
EP3028138A2 (en) | 2016-06-08 |
US11809503B2 (en) | 2023-11-07 |
US20190121829A1 (en) | 2019-04-25 |
US10162903B2 (en) | 2018-12-25 |
EP3028138A4 (en) | 2017-03-08 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105706046A (en) | Surfacing user-specific data records in search | |
US11531678B2 (en) | Recommendations from comments on online social networks | |
US10511933B2 (en) | Travel recommendations on online social networks | |
CN104396284B (en) | Present the information for current location or time | |
US8055673B2 (en) | Friendly search and socially augmented search query assistance layer | |
US20170308251A1 (en) | User Interface with Media Wheel Facilitating Viewing of Media Objects | |
US10366115B2 (en) | Routing query results | |
US10282752B2 (en) | Computerized system and method for displaying a map system user interface and digital content | |
CN110651288A (en) | Event extraction system and method | |
CN107992514A (en) | The search and retrieval of structured message card | |
CN103282937A (en) | Content sharing interface for sharing content in social networks | |
WO2012036861A2 (en) | Action clustering for news feeds | |
CN102483753A (en) | Computer Application Data In Search Results | |
JP2019537811A (en) | Collection and provision of customized user-generated content across networks, based on domain | |
KR20140066176A (en) | Updated information provisioning | |
CN110603553B (en) | Sharing events with structured metadata | |
CN106062793B (en) | The retrieval for the Enterprise content being presented | |
US20170364524A1 (en) | Enriched location trail for task completion and memory recall | |
Vahdat‐Nejad et al. | Survey on context‐aware tour guide systems | |
US9021373B2 (en) | Systems and methods for webpage creation and updating | |
CN106462603A (en) | Disambiguation of queries implicit to multiple entities | |
US20160188173A1 (en) | Replicating User Input Across Displayed Search Results | |
US20140019541A1 (en) | Systems and methods for selecting content using webref entities | |
US20140280006A1 (en) | Managing text in documents based on a log of research corresponding to the text | |
KR101836420B1 (en) | Indexing for history detection |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |