The application is the applying date is on 08 07th, 2009, and application number is the divisional application of the application for a patent for invention of 200980110282.8, is attached in the application by former parent application full content by reference at this.
Summary of the invention
According to the present invention, providing a kind of method simulating the impression of writing implement of writing on paper when using hand-held stylus to write on touch sensitive screen, comprising screen to be arranged as and vibrating to provide user feedback when contact by stylus.
Paper bag draws together the fiber mat in bonding agent, and each bar fiber has random orientation, causes having the rough surface of the localized variation of friction (sliding friction or the static friction) coefficient on surface level that the little Bearing pattern between pencil point and paper surface describes.Pencil motion from the teeth outwards can be described to the motion of stick-slip style.When using other writing instruments of such as fiber stylus to write, feel similar effect.For the writing instrument of other types, the version of this effect can be felt.Such as, for pen, if nib is bad, then will send scrape, but if nib is good, then there is sliding of quite level and smooth water lubrication.The type of paper also has impact and pen user usually selects the paper with suitable nib sensation, and this paper obtains ink when not having flushing with suitable speed.For ball pen, there is the level and smooth Frictional Slipping of viscosity, but paper has the fiber pattern below certain.
On the contrary, when using stylus or indicator to write on the polymkeric substance or glass cover on touch sensitive screen or surface, this stick-slip is lost.The stick-slip behavior of pencil on paper is the key factor of writing impression.When simulating the lettering feature of pencil on paper, using stylus to write touch sensitive screen and there is the impression of improvement, attractive force and user satisfaction.
By applying the signal comprising multiple pulse or stream of pulses, screen can be made to vibrate.
The method can comprise the speed such as by using sensor to sense the movement of stylus in screen surface.Screen can be arranged to according to the speed sensed and vibrate.Therefore for the signal with multiple pulse, signal can have the average impulse speed suitable with the average impulse speed of the speed sensed.
The method can comprise arranges to simulate pulling of the writing implement of movement on paper by carrying out periodic modulation to vibration to vibration, such as, for the signal with multiple pulse, by changing the time interval between pulse, namely by changing pulse rate, simulate this pulling.Spacing randomization can be made, simulate the random pitch of paper fibre thus.The scope of the spacing of pulse can be 1/5 to 4/5 of the twice of spacing between average fiber.
By carrying out amplitude modulation(PAM) to vibration, the axial reciprocating that vibration can simulate the writing implement of movement on paper moves.Can amplitude randomisation be made, simulate the random height of paper fiber thus.Amplitude can be defined by scale factor, and it is the equivalent that the volume of audio frequency controls in sense of touch.User can adjustment proportional factor to provide suitable dummy level.The scope of amplitude can be 3/8 to 7/8 of scale factor.
Therefore can apply two random seriess connected to generate vibration, First ray is for considering spacing between fiber, and the second sequence is for considering the height of fiber.These random seriess can simulate the synthetic paper structure for touch screen together.
The pencil that paper is write also can have himself resonance, and it feels there is contribution to what write impression.Therefore, stylus can be configured to, and is excited to bundle resonance in response to the vibration of screen, thus the resonance of vibration simulation writing implement of movement on paper.
Screen can be actuated to generation sound effect, and it simulates the sound effect of the writing implement write on paper.
Vibration can comprise the vibration of any type, comprises bending wave vibration, more specifically, comprises resonant bending wave vibration.
According to a further aspect in the invention, provide a kind of device comprising touch sensitive screen, this touch sensitive screen have be suitable for receiving and recording user via the face of the handwritten content of hand-held stylus, wherein this screen comprises the vibrator of excitation screen vibration, so that when stylus moves on this face of screen, vibration is sent to stylus to simulate the impression of the writing implement write on paper.
Vibrator can comprise the parts for bending wave vibration being applied to screen cover.Vibrator can be electromechanical and can comprise for electric signal being applied to vibrator with the signal generating unit making vibrator vibrate screen.
Signal generating unit can comprise the parts generating and comprise the signal of multiple pulse, such as, generate the phase-locked loop module with the stream of pulses of average impulse speed.This device can comprise the parts for sensing stylus speed of movement on screen cover.For modulating vibration vibrating the speed that the parts modulated can be configured to according to sensing, such as, the parts of production burst signal can be configured to adjustment average impulse speed with the speeds match sensed.
This device can comprise for carrying out the parts of periodic modulation and/or the parts for carrying out amplitude modulation(PAM) to electric signal to electric signal.Cycle and/or amplitude modulation(PAM) can be random and can be applied by shake module.
Signal generating unit can generate the signal making screen send sound component, and the sound component of the writing implement that this sound component analog is write on paper, acoustical signal can be modulated by speed sensitive parts.
Signal generating unit may further include the wave filter for reducing high-frequency content.Like this, the sensation true to nature with the least possible noise can be provided.
Vibrator can be moving-coil type transducer or piezoelectric bending transducer, such as, comprises the vibrator of the resonant element described in such as WO01/54450, and the content of this application is incorporated to herein by reference.Vibrator can be inertia vibration generator.
Touch screen can be the parts of panel-form, and it is flexural wave equipment, such as resonant bending wave equipment.Touch screen can also be loudspeaker, the vibration of wherein the second vibrator excitation generation sound output.Such as, touch-screen can be the resonant bending wave mould loudspeaker as described in international patent application WO97/09842, and the content of this application is incorporated to herein by reference.
As transfer the applicant international patent application WO 01/48684, WO 03/005292 and/or WO04/053781 in describe, can detect and/or follow the tracks of the contact of the stylus on screen.The content of these international patent applications is incorporated to herein by reference.Alternatively, other known method can be used to receive contact with recording or sensing these.
Invention further provides the processor control routine for realizing said method, this code is positioned at particularly, in the data carrier of the such as programmable memory of disk, CD-ROM or DVD-ROM, such as ROM (read-only memory) (firmware), or be positioned in the data carrier of such as optical signal carrier or electrical signal carrier.Code (and/or data) for realizing embodiments of the invention can comprise the source code of the form of the programming language (explain or compiling) of the routine with such as C or assembly code, object code or executable code, for arranging or the code of control ASIC (special IC) or FPGA (field programmable gate array), or for the code of the such as hardware description language of verilog (registered trademark) or VHDL (Very High Speed Integrated Circuit (VHSIC) hardware description language).As skilled in the art will recognize, these codes and/or data can be distributed between the parts of the multiple couplings communicated with one another.
Embodiment
Fig. 1 a illustrates the touch-sensitive device 10 comprising touch sensitive screen 12, this touch sensitive screen 12 uses stylus 18 or pencil or similar writing instrument carry out text writing 20.One or more sensor 17 is for detecting the touch of stylus on screen or movement, and vibrator 16 is provided for the signal generated in screen.The stick-slip behavior of pencil on paper is the key factor of writing impression.When simulating the lettering feature of pencil on paper, using stylus to write Touch sensitive surface and there is the impression of improvement, attractive force and user satisfaction.
Fig. 1 b shows touch-sensitive device 10 and how can be suitable for using sense of touch method and machine feedback technology to create this simulation.From under the control of programming in advance of writing input of stylus, writing surface by mechanical activation to simulate the sensation of pencil on paper.As being hereafter explained in more detail, the model of the intrinsic mechanical behavior comprising pencil can be incorporated in system, but feel that the user of the result simulated can not be familiar with or understand this point simply.
As shown in Figure 1 b, touch sensitive screen 12 is connected to sensor 16, and this sensor 16 detects the character of the contact from stylus.Sensor is connected to PLL (phaselocked loop) 24, and this PLL 24 is one of key elements for generating following algorithm, and this algorithm is for generating the impression of desired pencil on paper.The element of this algorithm can realize by hardware or software mode.Each element has following description:
PLL runs with the relative slow speed of jitter block 24,26 by the train of impulses setting obtained.This speed should below the mean speed of 150Hz, but the resolution of shake should close to audio rate.For required signal bandwidth suitably setting audio speed Fs, but its be almost certainly not more than 11025Hz (namely standard CD audio rate 1/4).When using multiple voice-grade channel, these signals can be multiplexing in single passage.Therefore when use four voice-grade channels, and be different from the passage with four 11025Hz, can have the voice-grade channel of a 44100Hz, they will by time-domain multiplexed (TDM) in four sense of touch passages.Output from wave filter 30 is sent to vibrator 17, and this vibrator 17 generates signal in screen to simulate desired sensation.
Fig. 2 is the process flow diagram of the step that each frame illustrated in system realizes.The sensor that may be implemented as the software on touch-sensitive device monitors touch sensitive screen.When " touch " being detected in step slo, ask " sense of touch click " (step S12) and impulse generator generates the pulse providing " click " to experience in a step 28 from signal generator or impulse generator 28.Screen surface is normally softish and have extraordinary damping.Therefore the shock of stylus is quite quiet.According to the purposes of proposed touch screen, " click " can provide or not provide audio feedback.When " pulling " being detected in step S14, Sensor monitoring position changes and calculates drawing rate or speed in step s 16.This speed data is fed to PLL module 24 subsequently, and it produces stream of pulses.When stylus lifts, sensor does not detect to touch and send to PLL and stops instruction (step S32) in step s 30.In step S34, PLL stops generating any order.
The pulse be subject to for sense of touch click feel can be same with the pulsion phase on the basis forming written analogue, but and not necessarily is identical.Such as, in the implementation of hereafter advising, they are different.The spectrum of unlike signal is all selected as the sensitivity of finger tip is mated with vibration.
The function of PLL module 24 as mentioned below.In step S18, when receiving the velocity information of sensor, PLL module provides the stable stream of pulses (step S20) as initiation command to shake module.PLL module measure this stream speed (actual speed rate) and input Velocity Estimation (targeted rate) between average error, and adjust actual speed rate with object matching.PLL module should provide storer and certain filtering, thus when there is noise or losing valuation, still there is regular output.In a word,
Input: start/stop, speed (targeted rate)
Export: the pulse under targeted rate
Function: the average error between measurement target speed and actual speed rate, and carry out suitable adjustment.
Annotation: target pulse frequency=pull spacing between speed/fiber.
There is provided the function of the shake module 26 of the synthetic paper structure for texture as mentioned below.In step S20, shake module 26 is to the random amplitude of pulse distribution, and the duration making pulse daley random subsequently in step S22, be after this delivered to signal or impulse generator 28 in step s 24 which.The statistics of amplitude distribution is not by the restriction of pulse rate, but average retardation should be 1/2 of interpulse spacing, and this means needs to understand pulse rate to a certain extent.In a word,
Input: synchronous (beginning), mean speed
Export: amplitude, delayed synchronous
Function: effectively, has the programmable monostable of other output
Beta can be used to distribute for random signal.This sets about shake and the correct mean value of amplitude data and variance.The value that " by checking " is selected seems close to optimum, and other values of testing create the lower impression of fidelity.It is difficult for generating Beta statistics by software or hardware, and therefore in actual effect, suggestion uses and has simply being uniformly distributed (namely rectangular distribution) of same average value and variance.Up to the present rectangular distribution be easy to most generate and equally good or about the same good with the most complicated form.
The equally distributed standard method being generated sample by software or hardware is PRBS or PRBS pseudo-random bit sequence.This PRBS is produced by shift register, and this shift register has the feedback appeared on some bit mode or mask.The selection of mask affects the repeat length of sequence and " whiteness " of noise.
For from be uniformly distributed generate the standard method of statistical distribution of specifying be so-called " inverse transformation sampling " method (see).Its will from (0,1] on equally distributed noise sample be mapped to the sample with the statistical distribution of specifying.For the method, be necessary the inverse function understanding cumulative density function.Simple example is as follows;
Suppose (a, b] on target be uniformly distributed; Probability density function (PDF) is
By obtaining cumulative density function (CDF) to PDF integration.Inverse CDF is the inverse function of CDF, namely CDF
-1(CDF (x))=x.Can also calculating mean value and standard deviation from PDF.Fixing any two different statistical properties allow to determine a and b.
Unfortunately, for Beta distribution, do not understand the inverse CDF of closing form, therefore the method does not help.But, the similar distribution with known inverse CDF can be observed, and use these distributions as replacing.The most approximate is Triangle-Profile, and why it is called as Triangle-Profile is because its PDF has leg-of-mutton shape.In the form that it is the most general, it is controlled by three variablees a, b and c.In the form simplified, a=0, b=1 and 0 <=c <=1, and
Closest to Beta distribution approximate be Kumaraswamy distribution.It is controlled by Two Variables a and b (arithmetic number), and is limited on [0,1]
Each in three distributions emphasized above may be used for generating randomness to simulate texture.Each sample needs two random data set, i.e. spacing and amplitude.In principle, these two set can be completely independently, but Test Suggestion they should be uniformly distributed generation from same.(this truly has its reasonable part, and it is, because long gap to associate with large amplitude and little gap associates with little amplitude, therefore makes signal energy more even.)
Distribution |
About the parameter of spacing |
About the parameter of amplitude |
Kumaraswamy |
a＝3，b＝5 |
a＝5，b＝3 |
Triangle [0,1] |
a＝0，b＝1，c＝0.5 |
a＝0，b＝1，c＝0.75 |
Rectangle |
a＝0.207，b＝0.793 |
a＝0.375，b＝0.875 |
Triangle-Profile from the figure line that the spectrum about each distribution the draws PDF together different distribution that shows to distribute with other.Main Differences is the scope of 1-5Hz, and degree is less under the average repetition rate of 50Hz.It is not best for allowing Triangle-Profile to cover gamut.Rectangular distribution and the most complicated form (Kumaraswamy) are equally good or youngster is equally good, and owing to being be easy to most generate up to now, are therefore the most reasonably select.
There is provided the function of the impulse generator 28 of the spectral property of texture as mentioned below.When receiving the signal from shake module 26, impulse generator 28 exports the signal (step S26) with the form of the stream of sample value.If received another input before stream completes, then new stream starts.According to the amplitude of the data modification output signal received from shake module 26.In a word,
Input: synchronous (beginning), amplitude
Export: the sequence of sense of touch " audio frequency " sample
Function: train of impulses is filtered into simulating signal
This function can be selected from many mathematical models and be fed suitable (adjustable) parameter.Use these functions, as explained below, arbitrary non-integer speed of roll-offing is possible.Impulse generator comprises FIR (finite impulse response (FIR)) wave filter, mates with the sensitivity of finger touch for making the tactile signals exported from impulse generator 28.High-frequency content can be reduced to rational level by wave filter.
Optional wave filter 30 can be provided for any remaining high frequency break-through reduced from impulse generator.Imagining this will be very simple recurrence single order graded filter, have the coefficient being selected for and avoiding multiplication; Such as 2^ (-n), 1-2^ (-n).If this proves inadequate, then second order filter can be used as replacement.Roll-off frequency is about as 500Hz-600Hz.
Fig. 3 a shows the impulse response of four signals from the impulse generator being incorporated to wave filter, and each impulse response has 300Hz or the cut-off near it.Wave filter has roll-offing of integer rank usually; Such as, the R-C network of electronic component has first-order kernel, and L-C-R network can have second-order response.Roll-off and to be represented by the slope of every octonary 6 × ndB or every ten frequency multiplication 20 × ndB in n rank on Bode diagram.
Many spontaneous phenomenons have the characteristic of " irregular fragment ", and in other words, their dimension is not integer.Simple and known example is " 1/f noise ", and it has 1/2 rank and roll-offs, or the slope of every octonary 3dB.In order to produce the signal with suitable " sensation " and " sound ", find usefully to have the ability to distribute completely variable roll-offing to signal.In other words, its level declines along with the p power of frequency or its power declines along with the 2p power of frequency.
Known by Laplace transform theory, there is the direct relation between impulse response and transition function thereof; And the direct relation (see " the Handbookof mathematical functions " of such as Abramowitz and Stegun, chapters and sections 29.3.7) particularly, existed between their rate of decay
All these transition functions are unlimited on DC, are not therefore in fact useful especially.But, there is the more useful transfer pair of the synthesis allowed in arbitrary territory.
Class1 signal shown in Fig. 3 a is first order pole and finds that the speed of about 2.25 to 2.5 gives best sensation/sound.The single order roll-off filter with unity gain passband of cascade can be used to generate this signal.The wave filter of the type has transition function
For integer p, be easy to the cascade seeing how it represents p low-pass first order filter.Each wave filter has the cutoff frequency of ω c=a radian per second.Speed of roll-offing is p rank, i.e. 6p dB/ octonary.Wish to be generalized to the situation that p is not integer.
By Laplace transform table, or they are carried out to the program of symbolic computation, find (see " the Handbook of mathematical functions " of such as Abramowitz and Stegun, chapters and sections 29.3.11)
Therefore
Impulse response is first order pole, and can be regarded as the popularization of exponential damping.
Wave filter can be traditional firstorder filter of p=1.This for be engaged in single system design anyone should be familiar.
Alternatively, wave filter can be the half rank wave filter of p=1/2.White noise is converted to powder noise by this wave filter on cut-off.
Notice the symmetrical nature of this transfer pair in time domain and frequency domain, power law is subduplicate inverse.This symmetrical nature is the core content of the explanation of 1/f noise (it is quantum-mechanical phenomenon).
Type 2 signal shown in Fig. 3 a is duopole and finds that the speed of about 1.75 to 2.0 gives best sensation/sound.The second order roll-off filter with unity gain passband of cascade can be used to generate this signal.The wave filter of the type has transition function
For integer p, be easy to the cascade seeing how it represents p second-order low-pass filter.Each wave filter has ω c=sqrt (a
2+ b
2) radian per second cut upper frequency, and the Q of ω c/2a.Speed of roll-offing is 2p rank, i.e. 12pdB/ octonary.Again, it is desirable to be generalized to the situation that p is not integer.
By Laplace transform table, or they are carried out to the program of symbolic computation, find (see " the Handbook of mathematical functions " of such as Abramowitz and Stegun, chapters and sections 29.3.57 and 29.2.12)
Wherein J
pp rank Bessel functions.
Therefore
Impulse response is duopole, and can be regarded as the popularization of damped sinusoid.
Wave filter can be traditional second order filter of p=1.This traditional wave filter transforms to familiar damped sinusoid in the time domain.
Alternatively, wave filter can be the firstorder filter with Q and p=1/2.
Time domain response is damping zeroth order Bessel function simply.For large t, trigonometric approximation (see " the Handbook of mathematical functions " of such as Abramowitz and Stegun, chapters and sections 9.2.1) can be used, namely
It illustrates the amplitude modulation(PAM) form that this is 1/2 rank wave filter of above-described half rank wave filter substantially.
Class1 and type 2 signal all do not have the dyeing in the sound of pencil generation.By making Class1 signal carry out convolution with the similarity signal with higher frequency, create type 6 signal.Convolution has closing form in this case.By making type 2 signal and there is higher frequency but the similarity signal with lower Q directly carries out convolution, create " type 8 " signal.
The spectrum (namely the voice output of relative frequency) of the corresponding texture signal of the average impulse speed about 72.6Hz has been shown in Fig. 3 b.Modified spectrum departs from original spectrum and is about 800Hz, and these signals are obviously more quiet at " in silent mode ".
Use have that the right wave filter of the cascade of first-order section can generate can the signal (type 3) of alternative, these first-order section have two unequal flex points.The wave filter of the type has transition function
Wherein I
pmodified Bessel function (see such as Abramowitz and Stegun " Handbook ofmathematical functions ", chapters and sections 29.3.50)
P(μ，x)＝1-(μ-1)x+(μ-1)(μ-9)x
2/2！-(μ-1)(μ-9)(μ-25)x
3/3！+...
An example is the cascade firstorder filter of p=1, wherein
As described above, the target pulse frequency of PLL module equals to pull spacing between speed/fiber.This formula is obtained, in order to understand elementary process by the interactional simple 2-D model generating paper surface and pencil." net " of the cellulose fibre that paper uses length to be 2-5mm typically and fine clay coating (particle diameter is about 0.1 μm) manufacture.According to the difference of paper, the surface obtained has the protuberance under many distance scales, but the scope of main yardstick is 0.1mm to 0.5mm.
Pencil typical case is manufactured by the cork (larch or cdear) around " pencil-lead ".Pencil-lead is actually the pottery of common burning potpourri being formed graphite and being stained with, and it is usually in the polymer immersed.Typical " sound " of pencil is the function of the hardness of pencil-lead and the bundle resonance of penholder.Typical mode series can be, such as; 350Hz, 900Hz, 2.0kHz, 3.3kHz etc.Certainly, these values will depend on the length of pencil.
Like this, this mechanism can be described to the stick-slip of pencil on coarse paper surface, and sound is modified by the resonance of pencil.
Fig. 4 shows the interactional simple 2-D model of paper surface and pencil, wherein uses and carries out modeling by the semicircle protuberance with double altitudes of regular 0.15mm spaced apart to paper.Pencil point and short penholder part are explicitly modeled, and hand-hand carries out modeling by lumped parameter.
Simulate in two stages, each phase lasts 1 second.In the first phase, pencil is lowered to paper surface, and apply 1N write power.In subordinate phase, pull pencil along paper surface with the speed of 1mm/s.Making a concerted effort and the motion of pencil point on hand can be seen in figs. 5 a and 5b respectively." tooth is stagnant " seen in two trace set results partly from the discrete essence (node) of model.In actual life, other grain details probably cause similar effect.
Can be clear that the periodicity of signal directly obtains from spacing between drawing rate and fiber, namely, spacing between frequency=drawing rate/fiber.
Accurate waveform shape is set by the degree of the control being applied to pencil.In this simulation, the speed of hand is constant, and nib is suitably followed.Contrary extreme case is the constant force applying to be enough to overcome average dynamic friction.In this case, speed will be uneven.
Fig. 6 a shows the more real model on paper surface.The statistical distribution of fiber Distance geometry height is for generating shown randomization surface structure.Select Beta distribution to carry out two main causes of generation model to be: it is limited in [0,1] upper (being different from the normal distribution of non-boundary), and use two independently parameter can control two in main statistical parameter (mean value, mode and variance).In this, the accurate parameter of statistical distribution is arbitrary completely.
Cutoff frequency (fc) is calculated from drawing rate and average fibrous septum.The smoothed version of the spectrum of the model generation of Fig. 5 a can be seen in figure 5b, wherein see that fc has obvious feature.
Seepage integrator is used to carry out convolution to sampled data.In the measurement results, time constant corresponds to 40rad/s, but this only controls the amount of the very low information of frequency in obtained signal.When on the loudspeaker of kneetop computer during play signal, it sounds like finger nail and pulls on paper.
The power that Fig. 6 c shows about the measurement result obtained from custom written instrument is composed.This instrument has interchangeable nib, and is equipped with dynamometer and accelerometer, and they are all connected to charge amplifier (ENDEVCO Model 133).These two surveying instruments are not calibrated completely, but the sensitivity of known dynamometer is close to 1V/N.Data are obtained via NI PCI-4452 data collecting card.The spectrum of measured signal is subject to the strong impact of writing speed.Substantially the cutoff frequency that low pass spectrum has directly and writing speed is proportional.By tracing on coordinate paper and using stopwatch to set up bandwidth roughly, for common paper, under the writing rate of 1 inch per second, bandwidth is about 50-60Hz.For different surfaces, bandwidth is different.
In the example of Fig. 6 c, writing speed is about 2in/s and to data sampling under 44.1kHz.The result of power has recorded the power be applied between pencil point and the penholder of writing implement.The result of acceleration has recorded the resultant motion of pencil.By using following relation, the virtual impedance of system can be obtained from these measurement results
Zm＝F/v＝j.2.π.f.F/a
Wherein F=power, v=speed, a=acceleration, f=frequency.
Should remember, accelerometer is unregulated, and virtual impedance is similar to the combination of the quality of 0.4kg and the damper of 100Ns/m.In other words, in fact as have about 40rad/s corner frequency damage integrator.
As being clear that, the measured power spectrum of Fig. 6 c corresponds to the simulated spectrum of Fig. 6 b.Subsequently filtering is carried out to promote at the frequency place corresponding to the mode in pencil to the signal of Fig. 6 b.New signal spectrum makes the accelerometer spectrum expecting seeing in fig. 6 c, its some resonance had in acceleration traces because of the mode in writing implement.When playing this signal on the loudspeaker of kneetop computer, it sounds similarly being more pull pencil on paper.
As shown in Figure 2, if sensor detects touch, then ask " click " signal.This signal is the cosine function carrying out frequency and amplitude modulation(PAM), namely
H (t) is the long-pending of envelope function g (t) and frequency modulation (PFM) function f m (t).
Wherein g (t)=α te
1-α t, it has unit maximal value at time t=1/ α place,
α is the rate of decay of envelope,
β is the parameter of controlled frequency modulation rate, and
ω c is the angular frequency at time t=0 place.
This signal can also be used as " type 3 " mentioned above signal, and it is for generating hand-written texture when detecting and pulling.
Find that this cosine function signal than its respective signal based on sine more effectively and study further improvement hereafter by adding new variable (adding φ to function).Subsequently preferably by this through revise Function Fitting compose to target sense of touch.
Observe the signal for the best, the peak value of the envelope at t=1/ α place is consistent with the peak value in cosine function.In this case, directly φ can be set.Use elementary infinitesimal calculus to confirm the value correct when t=1/ α and the independent variable of cosine function is set as 0, therefore:
As mentioned before, h (t) is the long-pending of envelope function g (t) and frequency modulation (PFM) function f m (t), but in this case
About the optimal value of three variablees, i.e. α=532.5, β=83.85, ω c=3133, is different from the optimal value of original function slightly.In both of these case, parameter is selected as the spectrum template matches with the function as vibration frequency, it illustrates the relative sensitivity of finger tip for vibration.Target is most of energy to be placed in the most responsive frequency range of finger.
Fig. 7 a shows the time variations of envelope function g (t) about signal and frequency modulation (PFM) function f m (t).Fig. 7 a also show how to obtain α.The time of first non-zero cross point is equal to 1/ α.Fig. 7 b shows and provides target spectrum (dotted line) of desired impression and the actual spectrum of above-described modified function to user.There is the good coupling between two spectrums.Other parameter values, even other signals, may be used for realizing similar purpose.The signal of Fig. 8 a and 8b just parameter value is also selected as composing with target the signal mated.
Fig. 8 a and 8b illustrates can the signal of alternative, and it has the starting point that starts in a frequency domain and is expressed as
Wherein a=96505=310.7
2, b=2011, φ=5.181, rad=297 °.
Fig. 8 a shows the sensitivity curve (fm (t)) being similar to normal distribution curve.Also known this curve (fm (t)) is the Fourier transform of himself, and therefore time-domain signal should be similar.Fig. 8 a also show how to calculate a and ω c.Calculate a and ω c as described above.As shown in figure 8b, this signal of alternative can not provide the matching of for target composing equally good with the signal of Fig. 7 a, but has following major advantage, and front end of its spectrum declines faster.
Compare this two signals for same peak amplitude, the signal of alternative can present the energy efficiency exceeding 25%.But some tests show to need to exceed the amplitude of 15%-20% to obtain identical impression, thereby eliminate this advantage.Can there is less high-frequency energy in the signal of alternative, this can contribute to making it more mourn in silence well.In brief, more do not select between which.The signal of alternative can be illustrated as " type 9 " signal in Fig. 8 a and 8b.
Fig. 9 a and 9b is for four signals of validity comparison as texture waveform.Amplitude adjusts these signals to provide the impression of same degree, but use different quantity of power to realize this impression.
Type 8 signal is that energy efficiency is the highest, and new sense of touch is clicked (type 9) and taken second place.The energy efficiency of type 6 is minimum.
When comparing with other similar type 3 signal, the decay faster of type 9 signal significantly improves sensation.When not having other filtering, type 9 is the most quiet in " silent mode ".
The little change clicked for the existing type 3 described with reference to Fig. 7 a and 7b is worth carrying out, and it is without any cost, and achieves improvement.Whether change into can the signal (type 9) of alternative be valuablely will depend on subjective assessment.
The signal type (type 8) of current suggestion is the trickle adjustment to type 2 signal previously selected.It is still the most efficient, although do not exceed how many.It is worth to compare with new type 9 signal.