CN107430483B - Navigation event information - Google Patents
Navigation event information Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN107430483B CN107430483B CN201680019077.0A CN201680019077A CN107430483B CN 107430483 B CN107430483 B CN 107430483B CN 201680019077 A CN201680019077 A CN 201680019077A CN 107430483 B CN107430483 B CN 107430483B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- level
- importance
- cards
- images
- card
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F3/00—Input arrangements for transferring data to be processed into a form capable of being handled by the computer; Output arrangements for transferring data from processing unit to output unit, e.g. interface arrangements
- G06F3/01—Input arrangements or combined input and output arrangements for interaction between user and computer
- G06F3/048—Interaction techniques based on graphical user interfaces [GUI]
- G06F3/0484—Interaction techniques based on graphical user interfaces [GUI] for the control of specific functions or operations, e.g. selecting or manipulating an object, an image or a displayed text element, setting a parameter value or selecting a range
- G06F3/0485—Scrolling or panning
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/903—Querying
- G06F16/9038—Presentation of query results
Abstract
Embodiments are generally related to navigation event information. In some implementations, a method includes accessing stored first information related to a plurality of events and providing for display in chronological order a first level card associated with a first time period and representing the stored first information for events having a first level event importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The method further includes receiving a request to increase specificity of a particular first level, and presenting a second level card for display in chronological order, the second level card being associated with a second time period that is a shorter segment of the first time period and representing stored second information of events having a second level of importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors, wherein the stored second information is a subset of the stored first information.
Description
Cross Reference to Related Applications
This application claims priority to a provisional application No.29/522,103 entitled "navigation Event Information", filed on 27.3.2015, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Background
The widespread availability of capture devices and the development of mass storage have made it possible to record vast amounts of information. Some information may be generated during the occurrence of an event. The information may take the form of photos, videos, postings, media, text, chat, and other types of media content. Sometimes, one may wish to view information generated during an event.
Disclosure of Invention
Embodiments are generally directed to navigating a plurality of event information to locate target information. The event information may be displayed in chronological order and at a wide time period level, and navigated to be displayed at a narrowed level. In some embodiments, the event information may be displayed in chronological order from a narrow time period level to a wider level.
In some implementations, a method may employ a computing device to access first information related to a plurality of events. The method may also provide, using the computing device, for display in chronological order, one or more first level cards representing first information for events having a first level of importance. The first level event importance may be dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. One or more first level cards may also be associated with a first time period. The computing device may also receive a request to increase the specificity of a particular first level card. The method may also include applying the computing device to provide for display in chronological order one or more second level cards representing second information for events having a second level importance dynamically determined based on the one or more importance factors. One or more second level cards may be associated with a second time period that is a fraction of and shorter in duration than the first time period. The second information may also be a subset of the first information.
In some aspects, the method may include receiving instructions from a user to display second information from at least one of the one or more second level cards, and providing, by the computing device, the second information from the at least one of the one or more second level cards for display. In some implementations, the method may further include providing, by the computing device, for display in chronological order of the one or more first level cards, a telescoping element representing first information for events having a lower importance than the first level event importance, the first level event importance being dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The telescoping element may be associated with a first time period. The method may also receive a request from a user to increase the specificity of the collapsed element and replace the collapsed element with a first level card.
In some implementations, the chronological order of the one or more first level cards is scrolled to display the other first level cards. In other implementations, an animation may be included during the transition period to display a chronological order of the one or more second level cards, wherein the one or more first level cards are progressively replaced by the one or more second level cards.
In some implementations, a method may employ a user computing device to request and navigate first information related to a plurality of events. The user computing device may display, in chronological order, one or more first level cards representing information for events having a first level importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The one or more first level cards may be associated with a first time period. The method may further support the user computing device requesting an increase in specificity of a particular first level card. As a result of the request, the user computing device may display, in chronological order, one or more second level cards representing second information for events having a second level importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The one or more second level cards may be associated with a second time period that is a portion of and shorter in duration than the first time period. Further, the second information may be a subset of the first information. In various implementations, a transition period may be included in which a portion of one or more second level cards progressively replace a portion of one or more first level cards.
In some aspects of the method employing the user computing device, the replacement of the first level card is by an animation of sliding the second level card during the transition period. In some implementations, the animation further includes enlarging the particular first level card before sliding the second level card. Further, in some embodiments, the strokes of the second level card are interleaved to gradually replace the first level card. The chronological order of the one or more first level cards can be scrolled to display the other first level cards.
In some aspects of the method utilizing a user computing device, the user computing device may request display of at least one selected second event information from one or more second level cards. In response to the request, second information may be displayed from the selected second level card.
In some implementations of the method of utilizing a user computing device, a telescoping element can be further displayed by the user computing device, the telescoping element being associated with the first period of time and representing first information for an event having a lower importance than the first level of importance. The collapsed elements may be presented in a chronological order of the one or more first level cards. The determination of lower importance may be made dynamically based on one or more importance factors. In other implementations, the user computing device may request to increase the specificity of the collapsed element, and in response, may replace the collapsed element with a first level card.
In other embodiments, a tangible, non-transitory, recordable computer-readable storage device, such as a medium, is discussed for storing instructions that cause operations to be performed. The non-transitory computer-readable medium may store instructions to access, by a computing device, first information related to a plurality of events. The instructions may further provide, by the computing device, for display in chronological order, one or more first level cards representing information for events having a first level event importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The one or more first level cards may be associated with a first time period. Further, the instructions may include receiving, by the computing device, a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card. Further, the instructions may include providing, by the computing device, for display in chronological order, one or more second level cards representing second information for events having a second level importance dynamically determined based on the one or more importance factors. The one or more second level cards may be associated with a second time period that is a fraction of and shorter in duration than the first time period. The second information may be a subset of the first information. In some implementations, the chronological order of one or more first level cards can be scrolled to display other first level cards.
In other embodiments, an animation may be included during the transition period to display a chronological order of the second level cards, wherein one or more first level cards are progressively replaced by one or more second level cards. In other embodiments, the acts performed by the computer-readable medium may further include receiving instructions for displaying the second information from at least one selection of the one or more second level cards. In response, the instructions may provide, by the computing device, for display, at least one selected second information from the one or more second level cards.
In some implementations, the computer-readable medium may further include providing, with the computing device, a collapsed element of the first information representing events having a lower importance than the first level importance for display in chronological order of the one or more first level cards. Event importance may be dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The telescoping element may be associated with a first time period. If the instruction includes receiving a request to increase the specificity of the collapsed element, the collapsed element may be replaced with a first level card.
In still other embodiments, a navigation system is provided and may include one or more processors and memory coupled to the processors. The memory may be configured to store instructions, such as an application, that cause the one or more processors to access first information related to a plurality of events; providing for display in chronological order one or more first level cards associated with a first time period and representing first information for events having a first level importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors; receiving a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card; and providing for display in chronological order one or more second level cards representing second information for events having a second level importance dynamically determined based on the one or more importance factors. The one or more second level cards may be associated with a second time period that is a fraction of and shorter in duration than the first time period. Also, the second information may be a subset of the first information. The chronological order of one or more first level cards can be scrolled to display other first level cards. Further, an animation may be included during the transition period to display a chronological order of the one or more second level cards, wherein one or more of the one or more first level cards are progressively replaced by the one or more second level cards.
In some implementations, the instructions may further cause the one or more processors to receive a request to display second information from at least one selection of one or more second level cards, and may cause the second information to be provided for display. The instructions may also cause the one or more processors to provide a telescoping element to display in chronological order of the one or more first level cards, the telescoping element representing first information for events having a lower importance than the first level importance, the first level importance being dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The telescoping element may be associated with a first time period. In some implementations, the instructions can also cause the one or more processors to receive a request from a user to increase specificity of the collapsed element and replace the collapsed element with a first level card.
In other embodiments, a computer-implemented method includes requesting, by a user computing device, a stored first photograph related to a plurality of events; displaying, by the user computing device, in chronological order, one or more first level cards representing first photographs stored for events having a first level importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors, wherein the one or more first level cards are associated with a first time period; requesting, by the user computing device, to increase the specificity of a particular first level card; and displaying, by the user computing device, one or more second level cards in chronological order over a transition period, the one or more second level cards representing second photographs stored for events having a second level importance dynamically determined based on one or more importance factors. The one or more second level cards may be associated with a second time period that is a fraction of and shorter in duration than the first time period. Further, the stored second photograph may be a subset of the stored first photograph. During the transition period, a portion of the one or more second level cards may gradually replace a portion of the one or more first level cards. In some implementations, the importance factor may be based on metadata of the photograph. Further, in some implementations, the importance factor may be based on the visual content of the photograph.
In some implementations, an apparatus may be provided and include means for accessing first information related to a plurality of events. For example, the first information may be stored in a database accessed by the apparatus. The apparatus may further include means for displaying, in chronological order, one or more first level cards representing first information for events of a first level of importance and associated with a first time period. The apparatus may include means for dynamically determining the importance of the first level event based on one or more importance factors. The apparatus may also include means for receiving a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card. Such means for accessing may comprise, for example, an interface of the apparatus. The apparatus may also include means for displaying one or more second level cards in chronological order and means for dynamically determining a second level importance of the event based on the one or more importance factors, the second level cards representing second information for the event having the second level importance. Such a second level card may be associated with a second time period that is a fraction of and shorter in duration than the first time period. The second information may also be a subset of the first information.
Drawings
FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary environment in which aspects of an event search interface may be implemented in a navigation system;
FIG. 2 is a flow diagram of an example of determining the importance of event information;
FIG. 3 is a block diagram of a hierarchical tree of event information in terms of time period levels;
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of an example of preparing a search interface for navigating event information;
FIGS. 5(a) and (b) are illustrations of exemplary lists of cards and telescoping elements;
FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of an example of providing a search interface for navigating event information;
FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of an example of using a search interface to navigate event information;
FIGS. 8(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) are illustrations of an exemplary method for navigating a search interface using multiple event cards;
FIGS. 9(a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are illustrations of an exemplary method for navigating a search interface using event information search results;
FIGS. 10(a), (b), and (c) are illustrations of an exemplary method of navigating a search interface using selection event information;
11(a), (b), and (c) are illustrations of an exemplary method of navigating a search interface using a telescoping element; and
FIG. 12 is a diagram illustrating selected exemplary components of a computing device implementing a navigation system; all in accordance with the present disclosure.
Detailed Description
In various embodiments, a navigation system provides tools for browsing information related to an event. Events may occur during specific time intervals and locations. Navigation systems enable locating target event information of interest. In various embodiments, the navigation system determines and categorizes events that the system determines to be useful and that are deemed to be of less or no importance. The system may group various types of information related to an event into importance levels for the event. For example, event information may include various types of content, such as images, emails, photos, videos, electronic drawings or drawings, animations, music, or other forms of audio and interactive content, including multimedia shared on social media websites. Event information may also be text, such as social media documents, postings, tweets, blogs, and social news. In some embodiments, the event information may be a description of news and historical events, data (such as scientific data including chemical reaction test data; seismic monitoring of earthquakes and other seismic perturbations), and any combination of the foregoing. The information may be generated by one or more users or one or more groups of users and may be accessed by the user or others who generated the content. This information may be personal to the user or may be widely distributed non-personal information.
There are some events of chronological importance depicted by the information, such as weddings, graduations, major sporting events, presidential employment shows, and the like. The importance of some events may change over time. For example, there may be events that become more noticeable and valuable over time, while other events may be considered less meaningful. Sometimes, information related to important events may be mixed with information associated with unimportant events. As the body of information grows as the number of events that occur increases, browsing or searching for target information related to a particular event may be cumbersome without the use of a navigation system.
Implementation of a navigation system may be helpful to users who want to browse or search for event information and who can benefit from a system that presents the information in a manageable, easily navigable manner. It can be complicated to consider a myriad of event information. Navigating event information for an inexhaustible timeline without an intuitive user interface can also be time consuming. For example, a student user may collect a large amount of event information while reading a university. At a point during the period of time that the student user is at university, the student user may be participating in a professional event. The student user may create and store information about the event, as well as a host of other information that depicts the university experience, such as taking photographs during the event, making video clips, posting on social media sites such as pushers, creating digital diary entries, making calendar entries, jotting out digital notes, and the like.
In the above example, the student user may want to retrieve information for networking purposes at a later time after the student's graduation. It would be advantageous if the user could quickly and easily categorize large amounts of information to locate targeted information. Categorizing by an event location-based query alone may not be particularly helpful in situations where the event occurs at locations frequently visited by the student user, such as a campus auditorium. However, initiating a search for information within a selected period, such as by the student user categorizing by year during the university or by particular years of the university or university schooling, may expedite the search.
In some implementations, the navigation system provides an intuitive interface that enables a user to more quickly jump to a more specific time period and find targeted information in the level of displayed events with increased granularity.
Some events may have a specific temporal context and the date of the event may be easily remembered, such as 9/11 disaster. Other event dates may be forgotten altogether. Still other events may only be universally remembered to occur at some point in a wide time interval, such as some event occurrence during a range of years, a particular year occurrence or month of occurrence.
Challenges arise if a user wants to locate information related to an event that is deemed to be less important for a period of time and then event state changes are later deemed to be more important. In an exemplary scenario, a student user may be introduced to a company or individual who becomes more important to the student user after graduation from school, such as through a work prospect or work colleague. A benefit to the navigation system is that it provides a dynamic adjustment function to update the event importance level, where certain events may be deemed more or less important to the user, a particular group, or the general public at any given point in time.
Where the systems and methods discussed herein may collect or utilize personal information about a user, the user is provided with one or more opportunities for controlling whether and how the information is collected, stored, and/or used. The personal information may include, for example, user data, information about the user's social network, the user's location, the user's biometric information, the user's activities, and demographic information. Thus, the systems and methods discussed herein collect, store, and/or use personal information only upon receiving explicit authorization to do so from an associated user. For example, the user is provided with control over whether the program or feature collects user information about a particular user or other users related to the program or feature. Each user for whom personal information is to be collected is presented with one or more options for allowing control of information collection about that user to provide permission or authorization as to whether information is collected and as to which portions of the information are to be collected. For example, one or more such control options may be provided to the user over a communications network. Further, the particular data may be processed in one or more ways to remove personally identifiable information before it is stored or used. For example, the identity of the user may be processed such that personally identifiable information cannot be determined. As another example, the geographic location of the user may be generalized to a larger region such that the specific location of the user cannot be determined.
FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary environment in which some embodiments of a navigation system 100 are implemented. In some implementations, the system 100 can include a search device 104 for conducting search queries and a computing device 120 for analyzing and processing event information. The search device 104 and the computing device 120 may communicate with each other across the network 114 to implement a date-based search for event information. The system 100 facilitates the user 102 to filter event information to find particular information through a search interface 106, such as a graphical user interface. In some implementations, the search device 104 and the computing device 120 can be integrated into one device. In some implementations, the functionality of the search device 104 and the computing device 120 can be performed by a combination of separate devices.
In the example shown in FIG. 1, the user 102 initiates a search for event information. Search device 104 displays search interface 106 on display screen 108. A search device 104 of the smartphone type is shown. Any other type of suitable search device is suitable for use with the present system, such as personal digital assistants, tablet computers, mobile internet devices, digital still cameras, digital video cameras, personal navigation devices, wrist watches and other wearable computers, head mounted displays, other mobile devices, and so forth. The search device 104 according to various embodiments may be any computing device capable of receiving query input and presenting search results, as well as determining and processing the input, with or without an information capture element. For example, the navigation system can be used with notebook computers, laptop computers, netbooks, desktop computers, gaming machines, in addition to devices that can enter search queries and inform results.
In some implementations, the navigation system can operate as a mobile application on a mobile computing device (e.g., a smartphone). Other embodiments include a navigation system running on a web browser with any type of computing device, e.g., as a stand-alone computer program or the like. One example may be a client/server architecture, where data is requested to be provided from a server and displayed on a client. In another example, all data storage and computation may be performed on one device.
A display screen 106 on the search device 104 may be used to display a search interface 106, which search interface 106 may include a digital card 110 representing important event information, a telescoping element 112 representing less important event information, various input elements, navigation elements, query input fields, drop down menus, and the like. The display screen 106 may be a TFT (thin film transistor) liquid crystal display, an OLED (organic light emitting diode) display, a head mounted display, or other suitable display technology. In some implementations, the display screen 106 is on a mobile device having a multi-touch sensitive screen. A given user may use commands such as zoom in, tap, scroll, swipe, etc. to quickly view an event. In some implementations, the search device accepts various other inputs, such as voice commands and keyboard strokes. It can be appreciated that the date-based organizational level of event information for the navigation system 100 can also be extended with search devices having other types of screens.
The user may interact with the search device 104 through input. Various inputs include, but are not limited to, touch screens, toggle inputs using an on-screen or external keyboard, head-controlled mice, voice recognition, gesture recognition, facial recognition, movement trackers, eye movement trackers, smart buttons, trackballs, trackpens, pen tablets, pens, stylus pens, and hand-controlled mice. The input may include a user applying touch, voice, tap, type, gesture, movement (e.g., moving eyes, arms, body), and other actions. In some implementations, the user contacts the display screen 106 with a finger or stylus to select an item displayed by the display screen 106. The user may enter text or activate control functions of the search apparatus 104.
The search interface displayed on display screen 106 may receive commands from a given user, convert them for use by a processor in search device 104, and transmit them through an external interface to, for example, computing device 120. In some implementations, the search device 104 can transmit a request to retrieve event information to the computing device 120 over the network 114. The request may be provided from a user's instruction. In some implementations, the user request can launch the computing device 120 to provide elements of event information representing processing of the search interface.
During the processing stage, the processor 122 of the computing device 120 may analyze the event information to cluster the information into discrete events. For example, various metadata in event information may assist in event information clustering. Various techniques may be employed to identify and cluster information. For example, the information may include metadata with similar or identical labels or tags, such as a geo-tag and a timestamp, which indicate that the group of information belongs to a particular event (e.g., geo-tag indicates paris and timestamp indicates christmas). Metadata in the form of tags may be user generated or automatically generated by the system (e.g., based on device information, GPS, server information, etc.). Metadata for event information may also include likes, comments, views, reviews, comments on comments, forwards, emails, etc. For event information including images, with user consent to such object recognition of the images, objects represented in the images may be identified with various combinations of object recognition processes to assist in identifying events depicted by the images (e.g., using a birthday cake to identify birthday celebrations).
In some implementations, to identify an object in an image, the system 100 can compare the object (e.g., an image of the object) and match the object to a reference image of the object. In some implementations, the system 100 can search the reference images in order to identify any one or more reference images that are similar to the object in the image. In some implementations, for a given reference image, the system 100 can extract features from the image of the object in the image for analysis, and then compare those features to those in one or more reference images. For example, the system 100 may analyze the relative position, size, and/or shape of object features such as facial features, body features, and the like. In some implementations, the system 100 can use data collected from the analysis to match objects in the image with one or more reference images having matching or similar features. In some implementations, where the user agrees to utilize subject features such as facial features, body features, etc., the system 100 may normalize multiple reference images and compress the subject data from those images into a composite representation with information (e.g., subject feature data) and then compare the subject in the images to the composite representation for facial recognition.
In some cases, an object in an image may be similar to multiple reference images associated with objects in the same category. In this way, the navigation system may determine that there is a high probability that the object associated with the object in the image is the same object associated with the reference image.
In some implementations, to facilitate object recognition, the system 100 can use a geometric recognition algorithm based on feature recognition. The system 100 may also use a photometric algorithm based on a statistical method that extracts object features as values for comparison. A combination of the geometric and photometric methods may also be used when comparing an object in an image with one or more references.
Other recognition algorithms may be used. For example, the system 100 may use recognition algorithms that utilize one or more of principal component analysis, linear discriminant analysis, elastic bundle map matching, hidden markov models, and dynamic link matching. It will be appreciated that other known or later developed recognition algorithms, techniques, and/or systems may be used by the system 100.
In some implementations, where the user agrees and the system 100 enables the user of the social-networking system to specify and/or agree to use personal information, facial recognition is employed, and the use of personal information may include the system 100 using their face in an image or using their identity information in identifying a person identified in an image. For example, the system 100 provides the user with a variety of options relating to specifying and/or agreeing to use personal information. For example, the selections related to the designation and/or consent are associated with personal images, all images, personal photo albums, all photo albums, and the like. This selection may be achieved in various ways. For example, the system 100 causes buttons or check boxes to be displayed next to the various selections. In some implementations, the system 100 generally enables users of a social network to specify and/or agree to use their images for facial recognition.
Event information may be clustered by an event identifier, such as a tag, attached to the information. In some implementations, the computing device can include an index 126, e.g., in the form of a lookup table, for storing information identifiers of events, corresponding event identifiers, and dates in an information table 128. The information table 128 may be stored in the memory 124 and the event information may be stored in a remote storage unit or the event information may be saved locally in a data store 136 in the computing device 120. In some cases, information may be clustered into more than one event, such that the information is associated with more than one event identifier. In some embodiments, the event information for the events may be stored together uniformly in the data store 136.
In some implementations, when the event information is captured and/or downloaded, the event information may have been previously analyzed and processed for presentation to the search device. In some implementations, the analysis and processing of event information may initially occur upon initiation of a search request from a search device, and/or the analysis and processing may dynamically update the importance of an event, for example, upon generation or receipt of a search request. The analysis and processing of event information may also be performed prior to a search request and dynamically updated after a search request is generated or received, such as to update the importance of an event. Further, in some implementations, the analysis and processing of event information may be performed directly on the search device 104, in which case components of the computing device 120 for event information analysis and processing are provided in the search device 104.
In some implementations, the date of the event can range from the beginning of the event to the end of the event. In some embodiments, the event date may be the beginning, middle, or end of the date. In still other embodiments, the event date may be the date on which the most important aspects of the event have occurred.
Further to processing, events may be analyzed with an importance analysis module 132 to determine the importance of various events, and their importance values may be stored in the importance table 120 in an index 126 in memory 124. Events that are deemed important may be provided as cards to the search device.
In some implementations, only events that qualify as having a threshold importance value are surfaced as cards on the search interface 108. One or more importance factors or rules stored in the importance factor module 134 may be used in determining the importance value. In some implementations, the importance factor can be based on the content of the event information, such as the visual content of a photograph. The importance factor may also be based on metadata of the event information. In still other embodiments, the factor may utilize characteristics of the event in the determination. Some such factors may include the location of the event and the distance of the location from the home point, the date of the event, the event and time range, the identity of popular landmarks, the inclusion of set data values, the people present in the event, the number of event photographs available, and the like.
In some embodiments, some importance factors may require an update to the importance determination for an event. Some such factors that may change importance determination over time may include the ranking of social contacts captured by the event information, frequency of access, social popularity of the event location, proximity to known contacts, user location, general popularity of contact or social media postings or tweets, relative importance of the event to other events, social trends of the event, user indications of importance, metadata associated with the event information, and so forth. In some embodiments, the importance factor may be changed to add, remove, or change one or more factors in the algorithm. For example, a particular importance may indicate an importance during a particular time after which the factor is automatically removed as a factor. In some embodiments, the user may add or remove importance factors.
In some implementations, the addition, removal, or change of the importance factor can trigger the navigation system to dynamically perform an update to the importance state of the stored event. In response to the update, the event cards and telescoping elements may be changed to reflect any changes in the importance of the underlying representation events. For example, for one or more events that change in importance from less important to meeting an importance threshold, the telescoping element may change to an event card. Further, for any represented event whose importance changes below the importance threshold, the event card may change to a telescoping element.
The importance of an event may be personal to a user or may be common to different users. In some cases, more than one user may access and search for the same event information, in which case an importance value may be determined for each user or group of users. Thus, an event may have one or more user-based importance, in which case the user and associated importance value may be stored in the importance table 120.
Where the systems discussed herein collect or utilize personal information about a user, the user may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information (e.g., information about the user's social network, social actions or activities, profession, the user's preferences, or the user's current location), or whether and/or how to receive content that may be more relevant to the user. In addition, certain data may be processed in one or more ways before it is stored or used, so that personally identifiable information has to be removed. For example, the user's identity may be processed such that personally identifiable information for the user cannot be determined, or the user's geographic location may be generalized when location information is obtained (such as to a city, zip code, or state level) such that the user's specific location cannot be determined. Thus, the user may have control over how information about the user is collected and used by the content server.
Navigation systems provide benefits in dynamically determining the importance of an event. For example, the system may update the importance of an event by using an importance factor with respect to regularly pre-scheduled update times. Sometimes, updates to the importance of an event may occur when the event is triggered. For example, the system may update the importance value when new event information is received. In some implementations, the update occurs at the time of a user request, such as the initiation of an event search query.
FIG. 2 illustrates an example of a process for determining event importance that may be used in accordance with various embodiments. In various embodiments discussed herein, the processor of system 100 performs the described steps through importance analysis module 132.
In block 200 of the process, it is checked whether user consent (e.g., user permission) has been obtained to utilize the user data in implementing the process for determining the importance of the event. In some implementations, the importance factor may be based on user preferences, information about the user's social network and contacts, user characteristics (e.g., identity, name, age, gender, occupation, etc.), social and other types of actions and activities, content, comments and options created or submitted by the user, the user's current location, historical user data, and so forth. In some implementations, one or more blocks of the processes described herein use such user data. If user consent has been obtained from the relevant users who may be using their user data in the process, then at block 1202, it is determined that the blocks of the method herein may be implemented with the use of possible user data, and the method continues to block 206. If user consent has not been obtained, then at block 204 it is determined that the blocks are to be implemented without using user data, and the method continues to block 206. For example, in some embodiments, the importance factor is not based on the particular user data for which consent has not been received. In some embodiments, if user consent has not been obtained, the remainder of the process is not performed.
At block 206 of the process, event information is accessed, such as the computing device 102 receiving the downloaded information or communicating with a server that stores the event information. The event information is clustered under an event represented by the event information. Event information may be obtained from search device 104, internal or external storage media, social networking sites, other users, and other sources. In some embodiments, the receipt of the incoming event information may coincide with the initiation of the importance determination process.
At block 208, the processor 122 of the computing device 120 may determine an importance value for the event based on the importance factor, as described above. Decision block 210 determines whether there are other importance factors to consider for the event. If the importance determination process concludes that there are other importance factors, the process returns to step 208 to determine the importance value for the next importance factor.
Once the importance factor no longer exists to be considered, the processor 122 of the computing device 120 may determine the overall resulting importance of the event and determine the event as important when the result is greater than a threshold amount at block 212. For example, an average importance value may be determined from the considered importance factors. In some embodiments, certain importance factors may be considered to a higher degree than others. Thus, the determination of importance may include weighting some factors more heavily than others. The weighting of the factors may be employed automatically or may be requested by a user. At block 204, event information clustered under an event may be tagged or otherwise characterized as important as they relate to events that are deemed important.
The threshold required for the event to be identified as important may be a preset value, or the user may input a threshold to be applied to the event. In some embodiments, the threshold may be static, while in other embodiments, the value may be dynamic. For example, the threshold may be changed to a different value, in which case the importance of the event may be dynamically updated taking into account the new threshold.
In some implementations, the threshold may be specific to the current event level displayed, such that the value may be different for each event level. For example, the threshold of importance may be higher at higher event levels and lower at reduced event levels (lower levels). In this manner, events may be considered less important when viewed in a higher-level (e.g., first-level) context spanning a longer period of time, and more important when viewed at a lower-level (e.g., second-level) extending over a shorter period of time.
When an event does not meet a threshold of importance for any given period of time, the event may be classified as less important, as shown in block 216. The event may be marked as less important and the importance table 130 in the index 126 may also store the event as less important, as shown in FIG. 1. Thus, event information clustered under an event may be marked as less important when it relates to an event that is considered less important. Such a less important flag may change to an important state if a threshold is met at some subsequent time. Further, events marked as important may change to less important, such as may change to less important if the threshold is no longer met.
The decision step of block 218 establishes whether there are other events that constitute event information. If the process concludes that there are additional events, the process returns to block 206 to access the event information for the next event. However, if it is determined that there are no other events to classify, the process maintains the importance category in block 220. In some implementations, the importance designation may be subsequently updated, as shown in decision block 222. If an update is required, the process returns to step 208 to determine the event importance based on the importance factor. During the update process, no state changes may be found, or less important events as represented by the telescoping element may be changed to become important events as represented by the card, and vice versa. If no update is required, the importance designation is retained in storage.
To prepare for the display of event information, the events are organized into levels having various time periods. In an exemplary embodiment, the initial level for event display spans a longer period of time and may contain more event information than lower level events. Subsequent event levels (lower levels) are displayed with increasing event specificity and cover narrower periods of time segments from previous higher level events (higher levels). Thus, a lower level may contain a subset of the event information of a higher level.
Referring to FIG. 3, a block diagram illustrates clustering events 302 into broader time period classes. The a column includes ungrouped event information in chronological order of occurrence of the event information. Column B is an intermediate time period level of time-ordered events, where one or more event information has been clustered for a particular time period level as associated events 304. The first event information packet in column B may be considered the lowest level of an event 304. In the lowest level, each event of the one or more event information may be represented by an associated event card such that each lowest level card represents a single event. In column B, one or more events 304 may be further clustered into event clusters 306 representing wider time periods for the one or more events, and placed into higher level event clusters 306 in chronological order as shown in column C. On the display, each of the event clusters 306 may be represented by an associated card in chronological order within its stage.
FIG. 4 illustrates an example of a processor 122 of a computing device 120 that prepares display elements for easy navigation of the search interface 106 for display on the search device 104. At block 400, the processor analyzes the events to determine significant events that occurred within a given level of time period. At block 402, an event card may be created to represent a significant event, or a significant event may be combined with an existing card. In general, one or more milestones may be clustered, and a card for that level may be created to represent the one or more milestones clustered for the corresponding time period level. The date may be associated with an event card corresponding to the date on which the clustered event occurred. The event card is inserted into the appropriate location in chronological order based on the event card date along with other event cards, as shown in block 404. In the case of processing the current stage card first, the placement of the initial event card is referred to, and the subsequent event cards are placed in the time order of the given stage.
At block 410, a telescoping element for a given time period level is created for one or more less important events, or the less important events may be combined with existing telescoping elements. A date may be associated with each telescoping element corresponding to the date on which the event represented by the telescoping element occurred. The position for the collapsed element is determined based on its date for insertion in chronological order along the event card at a given level, as shown at block 412. In some implementations, the date on which the less important events are sorted can be the date on which the event started, in the middle of the event, or ended.
Fig. 5(a) and (b) show an example of the levels of the event card 500 and the telescoping element 502 in chronological order. The event card 500 may take the form of any of a variety of display elements that represent one or more events captured by information such as thumbnails. The card may present contextual material to indicate the event information it represents. The exemplary card shown in fig. 5(a) includes a title 504 of large-size text that may be based on event location, a descriptive event location 506, an event date or date range 508, and the amount and type 504 of information represented by the card 504, such as a photograph and the number of single-view or multi-view (e.g., 360 degree) images. For example, the card may include pictures and/or informational text such as representative images, icons, depictions, still images from videos, and the like, such as representative data, the title of the event, the date or date range at which the event occurred, the location, and the like. In some implementations, the additional description may appear when the user hovers over or taps on the card, such as a video sample of the event information may be played.
Also shown are telescoping elements inserted in the card list of each or more than one less significant event by horizontal line. In some implementations, the telescoping elements may be in different forms that are inserted between cards representing significant events. For example, the telescoping element may be the same shape as the card representing the milestone and have a smaller size, such as a smaller height, than the card representing the milestone. Thus, in some implementations, the size of the card may reflect the importance of the event, such that smaller cards are used for less important events. In some implementations, the telescoping elements may be cards with lower resolution or in a different color (e.g., black and white) than the cards representing significant events, or otherwise of a quality representing lower significance.
The higher level cards as shown in fig. 5(a) represent a high level overview of events over a period of time. The timeline of cards and telescoping elements can be navigated to display other levels of detail in a manner comparable to navigating a digital map. For example, a search of a digital map may begin at a global zoom level, where only continent marks may be initially displayed without fine details such as city marks. By zooming in on an area of the digital map, more details of a location can be revealed. For a navigation system, a request for an event to view a more detailed level of cards or telescoping elements may be performed, for example, by tapping or separating a movement 512 of a finger on a touch screen for magnification, as shown as a circle and an arrow for purposes of illustration.
Fig. 5(b) shows a next lower level card 514 and a lower level telescoping element 516, where each card represents a more specific time scale and subset of event information for the corresponding higher level card. The list of cards may be scrolled to view other cards having an earlier or later date in the card chronological order, as shown by the circles and arrows 518 for illustrative purposes.
In some implementations, higher level cards may represent event information from a narrow time period. The next lower level card may represent a wider time period. Such a ranking at a card level from narrow to wider may be helpful, for example, for a user who knows certain event information from a particular time and uses the known event information to view other event information in a related time period.
FIG. 6 illustrates, by a flow chart, some embodiments of a navigation system that may be executed by the processor 122 of the computing device 120. At block 600, the computing device may receive a request for search event information.
The request may include an initial date or time period that the user may want to start their search. For example, a user may request that a search begin within a wide period of time, such as a particular year. The user may also select a time interval for the event cluster as represented by the date of the first level card. For example, a monthly time interval may be requested, in which case events may be clustered according to the months of a given year, and a first level card dated by month may be presented in a first level search. In another example, the user may request an initial date period of several years for a first level of search, and the time interval for the event may be yearly. In other embodiments, the initial date period and/or event interval may be determined by default settings.
At block 602, cards and telescoping elements for a first time period level are provided, such as by a computing device, in response to a request. The card and the telescoping element are in chronological order according to the requested time interval and within the initial date of the search. The cards and telescoping elements may be provided to the search device 104, such as over the network 114, for display on the search device 104. In some implementations, the user may request that the card and the telescoping element be provided to a search device different from the device that initiated the search request, such as another device operated by the user, a search device of a social contact, and so forth.
The user may select a particular one or more of the displayed cards to deploy the event represented by the card. For example, a user may tap a card or user interface element, or use a flick, pinch, spread, drag, or swipe gesture with one or more fingers or other touch control gesture on the card, use voice commands to indicate a selection of the card, or the like. At block 604, a request to increase the specificity of a particular card is received, such as from the search device 104. As shown in decision block 606, the computing device considers the particular card and determines whether a more specific lower level of detail card exists for the particular card selected. At block 608, if a particular card represents the card at the lowest level of detail of the represented event, event information for that card may be provided. However, if there are lower level cards for that particular card, the process continues to block 610 to provide lower level cards and lower level telescoping elements in event order for the next time period level, showing a larger-grained subset of events, each lower level card representing a time segment of its corresponding higher level card.
At decision block 612, the process determines whether a request for any of the multiple cards or collapsed elements is pending. If there are other requests, other requests are received in block 604 and the process repeats. When the pending request is no longer stored, the query may optionally be saved, as shown at block 614, for future reference or to continue the search at a later time.
FIG. 7 illustrates, by way of a flow chart, some embodiments of a navigation system that may be executed by a processor of the search device 104. At block 700, a user may operate a search device to request stored event information. The request may include specific parameters of the query, such as the inception date or date range and time interval of the event card. In response, the temporal order of the cards and the collapsed elements may be displayed for a first time period level, as shown at block 702.
At block 704, the search device may request more event details for a particular card to reveal cards that span a time segment that is less than the previous time period. Decision block 706 determines whether there is another level of cards. If the particular card represents the lowest level card and there are no more event clusters, the event information is displayed as shown in block 708. If not, at block 710, the cards and telescoping elements for the next slot level are displayed in chronological order along the timeline of the event. Alternatively, in some embodiments, at any displayed time period level, the user may request that all event information be provided for any selected card or group of cards, such as by making a single or double tap or click on the card. At decision block 712, if there is another request, the process returns to block 704 to continue to provide the next lower level card or event information. Otherwise, if there are no other requests, the query may optionally be stored, as shown at block 714.
Fig. 8(a) to (g) illustrate some exemplary sequential animation type transitions of a search interface for finding event information in the form of photographs. Similar interfaces may also be used to expose other types of event information. The navigation system may include one or more of the exemplary transitional search interface screens shown in fig. 8(a) through (g). For example, in some embodiments, the search interface may transition directly from fig. 8(a) to fig. 8(g) without the animation or transition search interface screens shown in fig. 8(b) through (f). In some embodiments, the user may select event information that undergoes an animation and jumps from one level to the next or for a given level to all cards shown.
The search interface 800 may transition from one time period at a higher event level to another more specific time period at a lower event level that covers a portion of the time of the segment. Fig. 8(a) depicts a first level card 802, a telescoping element 804, a scroll bar 806, and a title and toolbar 808. In the exemplary interface shown, cards 802 are displayed in a vertical list in chronological order. It should be appreciated that various other chronological arrangements of cards may be provided on the search interface. For example, the cards 802 may be arranged as a horizontal list, grid, rectangular or other shaped pattern, etc. on the interface. In some implementations, the cards may be sized and positioned to create a frowneye view effect in which one or more cards are emphasized.
In some implementations, the card 802 may include a representative photograph 810, a location description 812 and a date 814 of the event represented by the card 802. In fig. 8(a) to (g), the cards are shown as rectangles and span the length of the interface. However, other shapes and sizes of cards may be used in the search interface.
The cards may be scrollable to display other cards and telescoping elements at the time period level to view cards representing events that occur earlier or later in time. A scroll bar 806 or other display element may enable viewing of other card and telescoping elements, such as next page elements (e.g., arrows, page numbers, input fields for page numbers, etc.). The position of the scroll bar along the track may also indicate the amount of cards at that time period level and the amount of cards at the dates before and after the displayed cards. The scroll bar and track may run along a list of cards, for example the cards may be displayed horizontally and the scroll bar track may also be displayed horizontally on the display or other patterns.
In some implementations, one or more cards associated with a time period of interest may be centered along the chronologically ordered cards on the display or otherwise emphasized among other cards in the time period stage. In some implementations, the cards associated with the time period of interest may be enlarged, have a different shape than other cards, be highlighted, lit or colored with a bezel, and so forth. For example, a user may request a timescale for initiating a search, and the card associated with that timescale may be emphasized.
To display the next level time period, the user may select one or more cards and thereby request an increase in the specificity of a particular one or more first level cards. The selection may be made by one or more screen taps and/or zoom touch commands (such as pinch gestures) on one or more cards or various other mechanisms of making requests to lower level cards. The drawing indicates a tap 816 with a faded circle and a zoom-in command 818 with a faded oval shape. In various embodiments, the search interface may or may not include such an effect for indicating activation of a command.
Fig. 8(b) and (c) show an example of a search interface process when the first level card 820 has been selected to extend the specificity of the event information for the time period associated with that card. During this transition, selected cards 820 may become progressively larger, while other unselected cards 822 may be progressively pushed or slid out of the search interface screen. For cards that include images, expansion of the card may also involve cropping, depending on the aspect ratio of the image. The unselected cards may also fade before moving out of the screen.
FIG. 8(d) shows the selected card 820 enlarged to its full size during the next transition of the search interface. In some embodiments, the amplification of a particular card occurs prior to the entry (e.g., sliding) of a lower level card. However, in some embodiments, the lower level card enters before the selected card enlarges or becomes fully enlarged. In still other embodiments, the selected card is not enlarged and replaced with an incoming lower level card.
In subsequent animated transitions of the search interface as shown in fig. 8(e) and (f), the lower level cards 824 and lower level telescoping elements 826 may gradually appear and slide into position in the interface screen. In some implementations, the next lower level card 824 and the telescoping element 826 may be moved into the search interface screen from one side of the interface, such as from right to left as shown in fig. 8(3) and further into the screen as shown in fig. 8 (f). In some embodiments, the animated sliding of lower level cards and telescoping elements may be left to right, top to bottom, bottom to top, diagonal, etc. In some embodiments, the movement of the lower level card may be coordinated with the relative movement of the lower level card.
The entry of lower level cards and/or higher level cards and optionally telescoping elements may also be staggered to gradually replace higher level cards, where one card moves in before the next and appears on the interface, etc., creating a staggering effect of the cards entering the interface screen. The staggered movement of the cards may be in various temporal sequences, such as cards that first enter from top to bottom, bottom to top, or first enter in the middle and then top and bottom, a scatter and random ordering of cards, etc., as shown in fig. 8 (e). The tilting effect may occur when the staggered movement is from one end of the card entering the interface to the other end of the card. As shown in fig. 8(e), at any given point in the sliding movement, the top card enters the screen farther than its adjacent lower cards or the like. In other embodiments, each of the next lower level cards may slide into the interface screen at the same time, and the appearance of the lower level card may not be tilted. Continuing to introduce transitions for lower level cards, the selected cards 820 for higher time slot levels may appear to fade gradually or instantaneously.
Upon introduction of a new set of larger-sized event cards, the bar at the top of the interface screen may be refreshed to show a summary of the new event tags. Fig. 8(f) and (g) also show a back-off element 828 in the form of an arrow towards the left. This back element enables the user to return to the card of the previous time period level, as shown in fig. 8 (a).
Fig. 8(g) illustrates an exemplary search interface with completed conversion of the next lower level card 824 and the telescoping element 826. The next (or second) level card may include a representative photograph 828, a location description 830 of the event represented by the card 832, and a general date. One or more second level cards may be further selected to emerge a next level card associated with a more specific time period level of the event and covering a smaller time segment.
Event information associated with a card may be revealed by a user requesting basic event information for any given card, such as by making a single or double tap or click on the card. In some implementations, as shown in the exemplary search interface 900 in fig. 9(a) through (e), event information may be presented upon selection of one or more cards from the lowest level cards.
In fig. 9(a), a scrollable list 902 of cards is shown in chronological order for the lowest level. One card 904 may be selected by a zoom-in command, which for illustrative purposes is represented by a bright oval shape 906. In FIG. 9(b), during the next transition of the search interface 900, the selected card 904 is enlarged to a defined size, which may be less than the full size of the search interface. In this example, the card includes a representative photograph in the event information cluster. Text 910 such as location and date on the surface of the selected card 904 may be dimmed. Further, for animation transitions, the unselected cards 908 may also fade from visible to dim and become pushed or slid out over and under the enlarged selected card.
In fig. 9(c) and (d), the search interface 900 may transition to gradually move the event information 912 from side (e.g., right to left) into the screen, as described above with respect to the next level card, and the movement may also be staggered, e.g., top to bottom. The conversion may be accomplished by the surfacing of event information 912, which event information 912 may take the form of a scrollable list, as shown in fig. 9 (e). In some implementations, the event information, e.g., a photograph, may be in a form that is visually distinguishable from the card representing the photograph, such as by a larger size, a different aspect ratio, and the absence of an optional label. At any point during the transition between stages, the user may return to the previous stage using the backup element 914.
The retrieved event information may be manipulated by the search device in various ways. For example, event information may be saved, shared with social networking sites, emailed, edited, and the like.
Fig. 10(a) to (c) illustrate selection of one event information 1004 among the event information list 1002 on the search interface 1000. As shown in fig. 10(a), the user may tap 1006 and/or separate the finger on any event information to zoom in 1008, thereby requesting that the selected event information 1004 be zoomed in. As shown in the transition frame of the search interface 1000 in fig. 10(b), the selected information 1004 becomes large, pushing the unselected information 1010 out of the screen. In the search interface 1000 shown in fig. 10(c), the selected information 1004 may be enlarged to a full size. Optionally, a border 1012 may be included to frame the selected information.
As shown in fig. 11(a) through (c), a user of search interface 1100 may provide the user with an option to view the cards of less important events through telescoping element 1102. Events that have been characterized by the navigation system as being less important may be represented by telescoping element 1102. In some implementations, less important events may be grouped into a telescoping element. Furthermore, for some embodiments, the number of telescoping elements inserted between two cards may be limited, such as three. For example, as shown in FIG. 11(a), horizontal lines may be inserted into the card list in chronological order for each or more than one less important event. The user may zoom in 1104 or otherwise select one or more of the telescoping elements.
FIG. 11(b) shows the search interface 1100 in a transition phase, where three selected telescoping elements are progressively expanded to reveal cards 1106 of events associated with the telescoping elements. Unselected cards 1108 may be pushed aside by expanding the telescoping element.
In fig. 11(c), the search interface 1100 shows the fully surfaced collapsed element. Each of the selected telescoping elements has been replaced by its associated event card 1106. The events of the emerging telescoping elements may be reclassified or stored as significant events. The backup element 1100 may be provided to return to the search interface of fig. 11(a) in which the telescoping element was restored.
In FIG. 12, a search device 104 and a computing device 120, and at least some of their components, are shown in accordance with some implementations of a navigation system. The search device 104 may include one or more controllers, such as a display controller 1202 for directing display on the display screen 106, an input controller 1204 for directing input elements and a processor 1210. Search engine 1206 receives requests for events and event information and, in response, returns a search interface. In general, the search device 104 may also include various other applications. The search device 104 may also include various storage, such as storage 1208 in which event information may be stored.
The search device 104 communicates with the computing device 120 at its interface 1220 from the wireless interface 1212 through the network 116. Computing device 120 may include one or more processors 122 and memory 124. Processor 122 may process instructions for execution within computing device 120, including instructions stored in memory 124 or on data storage 132. The processor 122 may coordinate computing device components, such as applications, wireless or wired communication through an interface, and so forth. In some embodiments, multiple processors and buses may be used.
The processor 112 may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Processors may also be implemented using various architectures. For example, the processor 122 may be a CISC (Complex instruction set computer) processor, RISC (reduced instruction set computer) processor, or MISC (minimal instruction set computer) processor.
A "processor" includes any suitable hardware and/or software system, mechanism, or component that processes data, signals, or other information. A processor can include a system with a general-purpose central processing unit, multiple processing units, dedicated circuitry for achieving functionality, or other systems. Processing need not be limited to geographic locations or have temporal limitations. For example, a processor may perform its functions "in real-time", "offline", in a "batch mode", and so on. Portions of the processing may be performed by different (or the same) processing systems at different times and at different locations.
The one or more processors 122 and memory 124 may implement an importance analysis module 132, an importance factor unit 134, an event recognition module 122 for clustering event information into discrete events, a data store 136 for creating and storing cards and telescoping elements, and an interface elements module 1224.
The data store 136 may hold applications and other data. The data store may also be used to store event information. At least a portion of this information may also be stored on a disk drive or other computer-readable storage device (not shown) within computing device 120. Such storage devices include floppy disk devices, hard disk devices, optical disk devices, or tape devices, flash memory or other similar solid state memory devices or arrays of devices.
A computer program, also referred to as a program, software application, or code, may also contain instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods such as those described herein. The computer program may be tangibly embodied in an information carrier, such as a computer-or machine-readable medium, e.g., memory 124, a storage device, or memory on processor 122. A machine-readable medium is any computer program product, apparatus, or device for providing machine instructions or data to a programmable processor.
Any suitable programming language and programming techniques may be used to implement the routines of particular embodiments. Different programming techniques such as procedural or object oriented may be employed. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps, operations, or computations may be presented in a specific order, this order may be changed in different specific embodiments. In some particular embodiments, multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time. Various embodiments have been described. Alternative embodiments may be described using features described in a conditional language. As will be known to those skilled in the art, the functional blocks, methods, devices and systems described in this disclosure may be integrated or divided into different systems, devices and different combinations of functional blocks.
The systems and methods described herein do not require the collection or use of user personal information. Where particular embodiments discussed herein may collect or use personal information related to a user (e.g., user data, information about the user's social network, the user's location, the user's biometric information, the user's activities, and demographic information), the user may be provided with one or more opportunities for controlling whether or not the personal information is collected, whether or not the personal information is stored, whether or not the personal information is used, and how the information about the user is collected, stored, and used. That is, the systems and methods discussed herein collect, store, and/or use user personal information only upon receiving explicit authorization from the relevant user to do so. Further, the particular data may be processed in one or more ways before it is stored or used, such that personally identifiable information is removed. As one example, the geographic location of the user may be generalized to a larger region such that the specific location of the user cannot be determined.
Although specific embodiments have been described with respect to particular embodiments thereof, these particular embodiments are merely illustrative, and not restrictive. The concepts illustrated in the examples may be applied to other examples and embodiments. Accordingly, various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure, and other ways are within the scope of the following claims.
Claims (24)
1. A computer-implemented method for facilitating navigation in a search interface, comprising:
providing, by a computing device, a first set of images and a second set of images;
providing one or more importance factors for determining an importance level representing a card level of an image set comprising the first image set and the second image set;
determining at least one updated importance factor of the one or more importance factors that changes the card to a lower importance level;
in response to determining the importance factor of the at least one update:
determining a plurality of first level cards representing the first set of images and associated with a first time period, wherein the plurality of first level cards are associated with first event information based on the at least one updated importance factor, the first event information satisfying a first threshold associated with a first level importance; and
determining a plurality of second level cards including the changed card, the plurality of second level cards representing the second set of images and associated with a second time period that is a segment of the first time period, wherein the plurality of second level cards are associated with second event information that satisfies a second threshold associated with a second level importance, wherein the second set of images is a subset of the first set of images;
providing, by the computing device, two or more of the plurality of first level cards;
receiving, by the computing device, a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card of the plurality of first level cards; and
providing, by the computing device, two or more of the plurality of second level cards.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving instructions to display at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards; and
providing, by the computing device, for display, at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the computing device, a telescoping element to display in chronological order of the plurality of first level cards, the telescoping element representing a particular image of the first set of images of events having a lower importance than the first level importance, wherein the telescoping element is associated with the first period of time.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising receiving a request to increase specificity of the collapsed element, and in response to the request, replacing the collapsed element with another first level card.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the chronological order of the plurality of first level cards is scrollable to display other first level cards.
6. A computer-implemented method for facilitating navigation in a search interface, comprising:
providing, by a user computing device, a first set of images and a second set of images;
providing one or more importance factors for determining an importance level representing a card level of an image set comprising the first image set and the second image set;
determining at least one updated importance factor of the one or more importance factors that changes the card to a lower importance level;
in response to determining the importance factor of the at least one update:
determining a plurality of first level cards each representing the first set of images and associated with a first time period, wherein the plurality of first level cards are associated with first event information based on the at least one updated importance factor, the first event information satisfying a first threshold associated with a first level importance; and
determining a plurality of second level cards including the changed card, each of the plurality of second level cards representing the second set of images and associated with a second time period that is a segment of the first time period, wherein the plurality of second level cards are associated with second event information that satisfies a second threshold associated with a second level importance, wherein the second set of images is a subset of the first set of images;
displaying, by the user computing device, two or more of the plurality of first level cards in chronological order;
requesting, by the user computing device, to increase a specificity of a particular first level card of the plurality of first level cards; and
displaying, by the user computing device, two or more of the plurality of second level cards in a transition period in chronological order.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising:
requesting, by the user computing device, display of at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards; and
displaying at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: displaying, by the user computing device, a collapsed element in chronological order of the plurality of first level cards, the collapsed element representing a particular image of the first set of images of events having a lower importance than the first level importance, wherein the collapsed element is associated with the first period of time.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising requesting, by the user computing device, to increase specificity of the collapsed element, and in response to the request, replacing the collapsed element with another first level card.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising selecting the particular first level card by a user's spread gesture, pinch gesture, or tap gesture on a user interface.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein a portion of the plurality of second level cards gradually replaces a portion of the plurality of first level cards during the transition period.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the replacing of the plurality of first level cards is by an animation of a sliding of the portion of the plurality of second level cards.
13. A system for facilitating navigation in a search interface, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a memory coupled to the one or more processors, the memory configured to store instructions that cause the one or more processors to:
providing a first set of images and a second set of images;
providing one or more importance factors for determining an importance level representing a card level of an image set comprising the first image set and the second image set;
determining at least one updated importance factor of the one or more importance factors that changes the card to a lower importance level;
in response to determining the importance factor of the at least one update:
determining a plurality of first level cards each representing the first set of images and associated with a first time period, wherein the plurality of first level cards are associated with first event information based on the at least one updated importance factor, the first event information satisfying a first threshold associated with a first level importance; and
determining a plurality of second level cards including the changed card, each of the plurality of second level cards representing the second set of images and associated with a second time period that is a segment of the first time period, wherein the plurality of second level cards are associated with second event information that satisfies a second threshold associated with a second level importance, wherein the second set of images is a subset of the first set of images;
providing two or more of the plurality of first level cards for display in chronological order;
receiving a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card of the plurality of first level cards; and
providing two or more of the plurality of second level cards for display in chronological order.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to:
receiving instructions to display at least one of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards; and
providing for display at least one of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to:
providing a telescoping element to display in chronological order of the plurality of first level cards, the telescoping element representing a particular image of the first set of images of events having a lower importance than the first level importance, wherein the telescoping element is associated with the first period of time.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to:
a request to increase specificity of the collapsed element is received, and the collapsed element is replaced with another first level card in response to the request.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the chronological order of the plurality of first level cards is scrollable to display other first level cards.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of second level cards are provided for display as an animation of the plurality of first level cards being progressively replaced by one or more of the plurality of second level cards.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
providing a first set of images and a second set of images;
providing one or more importance factors for determining an importance level representing a card level of an image set comprising the first image set and the second image set;
determining at least one updated importance factor of the one or more importance factors that changes the card to a lower importance level;
in response to determining the importance factor of the at least one update:
determining a plurality of first level cards each representing the first set of images and associated with a first time period, wherein the plurality of first level cards are associated with first event information based on the at least one updated importance factor, the first event information satisfying a first threshold associated with a first level importance; and
determining a plurality of second level cards including the changed card, each of the plurality of second level cards representing the second set of images and associated with a second time period that is a segment of the first time period, wherein the plurality of second level cards are associated with second event information that satisfies a second threshold associated with a second level importance, wherein the second set of images is a subset of the first set of images;
providing two or more of the plurality of first level cards for display in chronological order;
receiving a request to increase specificity of a particular first level card of the plurality of first level cards; and
providing two or more of the plurality of second level cards for display in chronological order.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise:
receiving instructions to display at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards; and
providing for display at least one image of the second set of images from two or more of the plurality of second level cards.
21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: providing a telescoping element to display in chronological order of the plurality of first level cards, the telescoping element representing a particular image of the first set of images of events having a lower importance than the first level importance, wherein the telescoping element is associated with the first period of time.
22. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise receiving a request from a user to increase specificity of the collapsed element, and replacing the collapsed element with another first level card in response to the request.
23. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the chronological order of the plurality of first level cards is scrollable to display other first level cards.
24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the plurality of second level cards are provided for display as an animation of the plurality of first level cards being progressively replaced by one or more of the plurality of second level cards.
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201562139348P | 2015-03-27 | 2015-03-27 | |
US62/139,348 | 2015-03-27 | ||
PCT/US2016/024387 WO2016160632A1 (en) | 2015-03-27 | 2016-03-26 | Navigating event information |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN107430483A CN107430483A (en) | 2017-12-01 |
CN107430483B true CN107430483B (en) | 2021-03-23 |
Family
ID=55910333
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201680019077.0A Active CN107430483B (en) | 2015-03-27 | 2016-03-26 | Navigation event information |
Country Status (6)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US10318142B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP3274870A1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN107430483B (en) |
DE (1) | DE112016001453T5 (en) |
GB (1) | GB2554200B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2016160632A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (18)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US8106856B2 (en) | 2006-09-06 | 2012-01-31 | Apple Inc. | Portable electronic device for photo management |
EP2480957B1 (en) | 2009-09-22 | 2017-08-09 | Apple Inc. | Device, method, and graphical user interface for manipulating user interface objects |
US8698762B2 (en) | 2010-01-06 | 2014-04-15 | Apple Inc. | Device, method, and graphical user interface for navigating and displaying content in context |
EP3274870A1 (en) * | 2015-03-27 | 2018-01-31 | Google LLC | Navigating event information |
AU2017100670C4 (en) | 2016-06-12 | 2019-11-21 | Apple Inc. | User interfaces for retrieving contextually relevant media content |
US20180089879A1 (en) * | 2016-09-23 | 2018-03-29 | Apple Inc. | Synchronizing Display of Multiple Animations |
USD817988S1 (en) * | 2016-11-17 | 2018-05-15 | Trivver, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with tab based graphical user interface |
US10904211B2 (en) | 2017-01-21 | 2021-01-26 | Verisign, Inc. | Systems, devices, and methods for generating a domain name using a user interface |
USD844649S1 (en) | 2017-07-28 | 2019-04-02 | Verisign, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with a sequential graphical user interface |
USD882602S1 (en) * | 2017-07-28 | 2020-04-28 | Verisign, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with a sequential graphical user interface of a mobile device |
WO2019094638A1 (en) * | 2017-11-08 | 2019-05-16 | Ripple App Corporation | Communications platforms for use with a closed network of mobile devices |
DK180171B1 (en) | 2018-05-07 | 2020-07-14 | Apple Inc | USER INTERFACES FOR SHARING CONTEXTUALLY RELEVANT MEDIA CONTENT |
DK201970535A1 (en) | 2019-05-06 | 2020-12-21 | Apple Inc | Media browsing user interface with intelligently selected representative media items |
US10997262B2 (en) * | 2019-09-05 | 2021-05-04 | International Business Machines Corporation | Infinite scrolling search |
DK202070613A1 (en) | 2020-02-14 | 2021-10-15 | Apple Inc | User interfaces for workout content |
CN116069212B (en) * | 2020-07-10 | 2024-04-12 | 荣耀终端有限公司 | Quick looking-up method for application card, electronic equipment and storage medium |
USD1026018S1 (en) * | 2021-11-17 | 2024-05-07 | Beijing Bytedance Network Technology Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with an animated graphical user interface |
USD1024104S1 (en) * | 2021-11-17 | 2024-04-23 | Beijing Bytedance Network Technology Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with an animated graphical user interface |
Family Cites Families (64)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
USD522528S1 (en) | 2004-10-22 | 2006-06-06 | Microsoft Corporation | Transitional image for a portion of a display screen |
CN101356493A (en) * | 2006-09-06 | 2009-01-28 | 苹果公司 | Portable electronic device for photo management |
JP2008084110A (en) * | 2006-09-28 | 2008-04-10 | Toshiba Corp | Information display device, information display method and information display program |
CN101981987B (en) * | 2008-01-30 | 2014-12-03 | 谷歌公司 | Notification of mobile device events |
US9747141B2 (en) * | 2008-03-25 | 2017-08-29 | Qualcomm Incorporated | Apparatus and methods for widget intercommunication in a wireless communication environment |
US8669945B2 (en) * | 2009-05-07 | 2014-03-11 | Microsoft Corporation | Changing of list views on mobile device |
USD692456S1 (en) | 2009-05-26 | 2013-10-29 | Htc Corporation | Display screen with graphic user interface |
KR20110023977A (en) * | 2009-09-01 | 2011-03-09 | 삼성전자주식회사 | Method and apparatus for managing widget in mobile terminal |
USD686221S1 (en) | 2009-09-30 | 2013-07-16 | Htc Corporation | Display screen with graphic user interface |
US8793611B2 (en) * | 2010-01-06 | 2014-07-29 | Apple Inc. | Device, method, and graphical user interface for manipulating selectable user interface objects |
US8718386B2 (en) * | 2010-02-23 | 2014-05-06 | Intellectual Ventures Fund 83 Llc | Adaptive event timeline in consumer image collections |
USD648735S1 (en) | 2010-06-25 | 2011-11-15 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD640274S1 (en) | 2010-06-25 | 2011-06-21 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD644240S1 (en) | 2010-06-25 | 2011-08-30 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD640272S1 (en) | 2010-06-25 | 2011-06-21 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD643851S1 (en) | 2010-06-25 | 2011-08-23 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD646691S1 (en) | 2010-09-13 | 2011-10-11 | Aol Advertising Inc. | Display apparatus including computer generated icon |
USD656514S1 (en) | 2010-09-13 | 2012-03-27 | Aol Advertising Inc. | Display apparatus including computer generated icon |
USD682853S1 (en) | 2010-11-01 | 2013-05-21 | Adobe Systems Incorporated | Portion of a display screen with annotated graphical user interface |
USD673168S1 (en) | 2011-01-31 | 2012-12-25 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD671135S1 (en) | 2011-02-01 | 2012-11-20 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with transitional graphical user interface |
USD685389S1 (en) | 2011-05-27 | 2013-07-02 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD658674S1 (en) | 2011-05-27 | 2012-05-01 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated user interface |
USD664970S1 (en) | 2011-05-27 | 2012-08-07 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with user interface |
US9191355B2 (en) * | 2011-09-12 | 2015-11-17 | Crytek Gmbh | Computer-implemented method for posting messages about future events to users of a social network, computer system and computer-readable medium thereof |
USD682875S1 (en) | 2011-11-21 | 2013-05-21 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD673172S1 (en) | 2011-11-21 | 2012-12-25 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD689890S1 (en) | 2011-11-21 | 2013-09-17 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD692448S1 (en) | 2011-11-30 | 2013-10-29 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD699743S1 (en) | 2011-12-23 | 2014-02-18 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with an animated graphical user interface |
USD699744S1 (en) | 2012-01-06 | 2014-02-18 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with an animated graphical user interface |
USD717817S1 (en) | 2012-01-06 | 2014-11-18 | Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with transitional graphical user interface |
USD708200S1 (en) | 2012-01-09 | 2014-07-01 | Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with transitional graphical user interface |
CN103220396B (en) * | 2012-01-18 | 2016-08-03 | 华为终端有限公司 | A kind of a kind of method that terminal and schedule show |
US9009159B2 (en) * | 2012-01-23 | 2015-04-14 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Population and/or animation of spatial visualization(s) |
USD731509S1 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2015-06-09 | Ricoh Company, Ltd. | Display screen with graphical user interface |
US20130283194A1 (en) * | 2012-04-19 | 2013-10-24 | Yudek, Inc. | Systems and methods for managing content using virtual cards |
USD695778S1 (en) | 2012-04-25 | 2013-12-17 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
US20140006388A1 (en) | 2012-06-27 | 2014-01-02 | Google Inc. | Event searching and suggestion |
US20140101608A1 (en) * | 2012-10-05 | 2014-04-10 | Google Inc. | User Interfaces for Head-Mountable Devices |
USD726203S1 (en) | 2012-11-07 | 2015-04-07 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD729271S1 (en) | 2013-01-09 | 2015-05-12 | Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited | Display screen portion with animated graphical user interface |
USD754688S1 (en) | 2013-06-09 | 2016-04-26 | Apple Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD749625S1 (en) | 2013-06-21 | 2016-02-16 | Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
US20150006545A1 (en) | 2013-06-27 | 2015-01-01 | Kodak Alaris Inc. | System for ranking and selecting events in media collections |
US20150154774A1 (en) * | 2013-07-24 | 2015-06-04 | Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) | Media rendering apparatus and method with widget control |
USD762685S1 (en) | 2013-08-29 | 2016-08-02 | Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD754719S1 (en) | 2013-11-15 | 2016-04-26 | Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited | Display screen portion with animated graphical user interface |
USD754718S1 (en) | 2013-11-15 | 2016-04-26 | Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited | Display screen portion with animated graphical user interface |
USD753703S1 (en) | 2013-11-18 | 2016-04-12 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD743999S1 (en) | 2013-11-18 | 2015-11-24 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD755224S1 (en) | 2013-11-21 | 2016-05-03 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD753705S1 (en) | 2013-11-21 | 2016-04-12 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
US9460215B2 (en) * | 2013-12-19 | 2016-10-04 | Facebook, Inc. | Ranking recommended search queries on online social networks |
USD755832S1 (en) | 2013-12-30 | 2016-05-10 | Beijing Qihoo Technology Co., Ltd. | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD753709S1 (en) | 2014-01-31 | 2016-04-12 | Hitoshi Kawanabe | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD706803S1 (en) | 2014-03-12 | 2014-06-10 | Translate Abroad Inc. | Smartphone with graphical user interface for a text selection box |
USD755805S1 (en) | 2014-05-29 | 2016-05-10 | Comcast Cable Communications, Llc | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD760734S1 (en) | 2014-05-30 | 2016-07-05 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD750644S1 (en) | 2014-06-13 | 2016-03-01 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Display screen or portion thereof with animated graphical user interface |
USD746304S1 (en) | 2014-06-23 | 2015-12-29 | Microsoft Corporation | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
USD754169S1 (en) | 2014-06-23 | 2016-04-19 | Google Inc. | Portion of a display panel with an animated computer icon |
USD759673S1 (en) | 2014-09-11 | 2016-06-21 | Korean Airlines Co., Ltd. | Display screen with animated graphical user interface |
EP3274870A1 (en) * | 2015-03-27 | 2018-01-31 | Google LLC | Navigating event information |
-
2016
- 2016-03-26 EP EP16720213.4A patent/EP3274870A1/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2016-03-26 GB GB1715718.1A patent/GB2554200B/en active Active
- 2016-03-26 DE DE112016001453.8T patent/DE112016001453T5/en active Pending
- 2016-03-26 WO PCT/US2016/024387 patent/WO2016160632A1/en active Application Filing
- 2016-03-26 US US15/081,872 patent/US10318142B2/en active Active
- 2016-03-26 CN CN201680019077.0A patent/CN107430483B/en active Active
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
CN107430483A (en) | 2017-12-01 |
US10318142B2 (en) | 2019-06-11 |
GB2554200A (en) | 2018-03-28 |
GB201715718D0 (en) | 2017-11-15 |
WO2016160632A1 (en) | 2016-10-06 |
GB2554200B (en) | 2022-02-09 |
DE112016001453T5 (en) | 2018-01-18 |
US20160283076A1 (en) | 2016-09-29 |
EP3274870A1 (en) | 2018-01-31 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN107430483B (en) | Navigation event information | |
US11340754B2 (en) | Hierarchical, zoomable presentations of media sets | |
US7788592B2 (en) | Architecture and engine for time line based visualization of data | |
CN113795818A (en) | Media browsing user interface with intelligently selected representative media items | |
US7716194B2 (en) | File management system employing time line based representation of data | |
US7421449B2 (en) | Systems and methods for managing a life journal | |
US10467230B2 (en) | Collection and control of user activity information and activity user interface | |
US20060156237A1 (en) | Time line based user interface for visualization of data | |
US20200379631A1 (en) | Displaying Assets in Multiple Zoom Levels of a Media Library | |
US20130254662A1 (en) | Systems and methods for providing access to media content | |
US11294947B2 (en) | Method for line up contents of media equipment, and apparatus thereof | |
Suh et al. | Semi-automatic photo annotation strategies using event based clustering and clothing based person recognition | |
US20230020678A1 (en) | Curated Media Library | |
US20100332485A1 (en) | Ordering of data items | |
TWI483173B (en) | Systems and methods for providing access to media content | |
KR20190035659A (en) | Method for line up contents of media equipment, apparatus thereof, and medium storing program source thereof | |
Ghaly | Thoughtmarks: Re-thinking Bookmarks & the Personal Information Space |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |