CN105009080A - Implementing specifications related to a network forwarding plane of an electronic device having forwarding functionality - Google Patents
Implementing specifications related to a network forwarding plane of an electronic device having forwarding functionality Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105009080A CN105009080A CN201480010386.2A CN201480010386A CN105009080A CN 105009080 A CN105009080 A CN 105009080A CN 201480010386 A CN201480010386 A CN 201480010386A CN 105009080 A CN105009080 A CN 105009080A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- function
- rule
- realization
- electronic equipment
- forwarding
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L45/00—Routing or path finding of packets in data switching networks
- H04L45/56—Routing software
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F8/00—Arrangements for software engineering
- G06F8/60—Software deployment
- G06F8/65—Updates
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L45/00—Routing or path finding of packets in data switching networks
- H04L45/56—Routing software
- H04L45/563—Software download or update
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L45/00—Routing or path finding of packets in data switching networks
- H04L45/74—Address processing for routing
Abstract
A routing controller in a communication network may be responsible for issuing routing rules to forwarding devices in the network. Exemplary embodiments allow forwarding functionality to be implemented by the forwarding devices in a device-specific manner. The routing controller may specify a routing rule to be implemented by the forwarding device, and may provide a default or suggested implementation of the function in the specification of the rule. If the forwarding device does not have a predetermined implementation of the function that is specific to the routing device, the forwarding device may use the default implementation provided by the routing controller. However, if the forwarding device does have a predetermined implementation of the function, the forwarding device may override the implementation described in the specification and use the predetermined implementation instead.
Description
Related application
This application claims the U.S. Patent application No.13/776 submitted on February 25th, 2013,036, be entitled as right of priority and the rights and interests of " TRANSLATING NETWORK FORWARDING PLANEMODELS INTO TRAGET IMPLEMENTATION USING SUB MODELSAND HINTS ", its full content is herein incorporated by introducing.
Background technology
At communication network, such as telephone network and comprise in the data network of internet, can send information along from source device to the path of destination equipment.Source device and destination equipment can be the server of such as personal computer, such as e-mail server, Web server or file server or can send and/or other electronic equipments of the information of reception through network.
Information can pass through one or more forwarding unit, such as router or have other electronic equipments of ability information being forwarded to another equipment.Intermediate equipment can receive information and use function, algorithm, the data structure Sum fanction of determining where and how forwarding information, makes information shift to its intended destination.These functions, algorithm, data structure Sum fanction are formed " Forwarding plane " of network.The function of Forwarding plane, algorithm, data structure Sum fanction can be realized by the one or more forwarding units in network and/or implement.
Such as, forwarding unit can the packet of reception of inbound interface, the destination-address searching packet and application make forwarding unit search the rule of the destination-address in specific routing table.Routing table can provide the list representing " next destination " that packet should be sent to.Next destination for particular data packet can be such as final destination equipment or another intermediate forwarding devices.Next destination can by the Address Recognition stored in the routing table.Next destination stored in the routing table can be indicated by the final destination of packet.Thus, by searching the final destination (such as by the header identification of packet) of packet, next destination can be retrieved from routing table.Then, the packet of outbound interface can be forwarded to next identified destination by forwarding unit.
Some aspect of Forwarding plane can affect the efficiency of network.These aspects comprise adopted ad hoc rules, algorithm, data structure sum functions, the mode realizing Forwarding plane and realization and/or implement the position of Forwarding plane.
Summary of the invention
Path control deivce in communication network can be responsible for issuing routing rule to the forwarding unit in network.Exemplary embodiment allows to realize forwarding capability by forwarding unit in the mode specific to equipment.Path control deivce can be specified the routing rule realized by forwarding unit and can be provided the realization of the function in the specification of rule.If forwarding unit does not have the predetermined realization of the function specific to this routing device, forwarding unit can use the default realization provided by path control deivce.But if forwarding unit has the predetermined realization of this function, forwarding unit can cover the realization described in this specification, alternatively use predetermined realization.
By using predetermined realization, the ability specific to equipment can be utilized on forwarding unit, such as innovatory algorithm or hardware capabilities, and not requiring that all forwarding units in network realize the ability specific to equipment of this improvement.In addition, the prior imformation that path control deivce keeps those forwarding units relevant to realize the ability specific to equipment improved is unnecessary.
According to exemplary embodiment, specification can be received at the electronic equipment (i.e. forwarding unit) with forward functionality.Specification can describe the rule will applied by forwarding unit.Rule can be network routing rule, and can utilize function.Therefore, specification can specify the realization by the function that performed by forwarding unit and specified function, such as recommends, default or general realization.
Can to describe the model language of the ability (such as " finding the longest prefix match of the subnet mask in routing table ") of request, Description standard, and do not specify how to realize asked ability (such as, not specifying the special algorithm for performing longest prefix match).Modeling language can support multiple realizations of appointed function (such as find the first algorithm of longest prefix match and for finding the second algorithm of longest prefix match).
By forwarding unit, specific function and one group of known function can be compared.This group known function can be stored in the database of such as known function.This known function can have the predetermined realization of being specified by forwarding unit.Such as, specified function can be realize with the hardware in forwarding unit or this original place of software.Predetermined realization can be different from from the realization described in the specification in path control deivce.
In certain embodiments, specified function can be positioned at known function concentrate.Therefore, the realization of specifying in specification can be ignored.The predetermined realization of being specified by forwarding unit can be used, forwarding unit realizes specified function.
Specification can be provided for one or more parameters of rule, such as by one or more input values of binding rule use.If ignore the realization of specifying in specification, the parameter provided still can use together with predetermined realization.
In order to improve the efficiency realizing specified function, forwarding unit can utilize the prompting provided in specification.Such as, this function can be associated with the identifier in specification.The information that identifier can provide the function of function relevant, the effect of such as specified function.Use identifier or effect, the predetermined realization of function can be positioned on forwarding unit.Thus, even if predetermined realization has been in compiling state, the realization of compiling specified function need not be separated to use the realization of specified function.
Specification can specify the submodel identifying the one group function relevant with group identifier further.Group identifier is to point out similar mode to provide prompting with above-mentioned function.If by supporting that the submodel of the effect advised by submodel identifier carrys out pre-programmed forwarding unit, then forwarding unit can utilize submodel, and does not attempt identifying or separate the individual function in compiling submodel.
In certain embodiments, forwarding unit may not locate the specified function that known function is concentrated.Therefore, forwarding unit can use the realization of being specified by specification to realize specified function.
In certain embodiments, route system is provided.Route system can comprise the path control deivce formulated the specification adopted by forwarding unit.Specification can merge network route function.If specification can specified function recommendation realize and provide instruction this original place of forwarding unit realize this function; can cover recommend realize mark.Route system may further include the transmitter for rule being forwarded to forwarding unit.
Accompanying drawing explanation
Fig. 1 describes the exemplary network 100 comprising forwarding unit and path control deivce according to exemplary embodiment.
Fig. 2 description is generated by path control deivce and is sent to the exemplary network routing rule 200 of forwarding unit.
Fig. 3 describes the exemplary fulfillment database 300 of the realization storing the predefined function realized by the equipment with forwarding capability.
Fig. 4 describes the process flow diagram according to the illustrative steps performed by forwarding unit of exemplary embodiment.
Fig. 5 describes the process flow diagram according to the illustrative steps performed by path control deivce of exemplary embodiment.
Fig. 6 describes the example electronic device being suitable for using together with exemplary embodiment described herein.
The exemplary network that Fig. 7 describes the process performed according to exemplary embodiment realizes.
Embodiment
As described in more detail below, exemplary embodiment allows with some functions of the Forwarding plane realized by forwarding unit specific to the mode of equipment.Transmitting controller in network can be responsible for forwarding the regular forwarding unit be published in network.Forwarding rule for specific forwarding unit can be encapsulated in specification.
One of forwarding in rule can utilize function.As used in this, function is the prior defined procedure or the step collection that perform one or more task.Function can be other possibilities such as algorithm, source code, program or subroutine, routine or subroutine, process or method (such as Java method).
In the exemplary embodiment, function can realize by receiving the forwarding unit forwarding rule.Such as, forwarding unit pre-programmed can have the predetermined realization of function.Predetermined realization can utilize some ability of the forwarding unit specific to measure for fulfill.Such as, forwarding unit can comprise predetermined hardware or software logic, for performing the existence (such as, being found effective realization of the longest prefix match function of route table items by maximum coupling subnet mask) defined in function.
Realize utilizing the improvement ability be present on forwarding unit because predetermined, realize so predetermined can than do not utilize the general realization of the certain capabilities of forwarding unit more effectively or (such as storer, processing power or in the processing time) otherwise improve.
Exemplary embodiment described herein can be used in existing network on the basis from group.Such as, the forwarding unit that the pre-programmed with the function for forwarding realizes can add employing to not to be had in the existing network of the equipment that pre-programmed function realizes.
Therefore, be responsible for issuing the transmitting controller forwarding rule and can not know the existence that the pre-programmed on specific forwarding unit realizes, and not each forwarding unit realizes having for the predetermined of given function or pre-programmed.Therefore, according to exemplary embodiment, transmitting controller can also provide the default of the function in the specification of rule or suggestion to realize.If the forwarding unit receiving specification does not have the predetermined realization of the function specific to forwarding unit, forwarding unit can use the default realization provided by transmitting controller.But if forwarding unit has the predetermined realization of function, forwarding unit can cover the realization described in specification, alternatively use predetermined realization.This process allows to utilize the forwarding unit of the predetermined function improved to use together with not having the forwarding unit of such predetermined function.
Fig. 1 describes the exemplary network 100 comprising forwarding unit and transmitting controller according to exemplary embodiment.Network 100 can be other possible communication networks such as such as internet, Intranet or telephone network.Network 100 can comprise one or more optics, electric or other transmission mediums.
Network 100 can comprise first node 110, Section Point 120 and the 3rd node 130.Should understand network 100 only for illustration of object, and the network being suitable for using together with exemplary embodiment described herein can have any several destination node.Node 110,120,130 can be electronic equipment, other abilities such as such as personal computer, panel computer, server, router, switch or the customization of electronic network equipment.Such as, first node 110, Section Point 120 and the 3rd node 130 can be the equipment with forwarding capability, and node 110,120 and 130 can the information that enter of reception of inbound interface, process information be come next destination of comformed information and information is forwarded to next destination of outbound interface.
According to exemplary embodiment, network 100 can comprise controller 140, for communicating with the 3rd node 130 with first node 110, Section Point 120.As shown in Figure 1, controller 140 can be connected to node 110,120,130 directly or indirectly.
The rule that will performed by node 110,120 and 130 or be applied can be given an order and/or formulate to controller 140.Such as, controller 140 can with hardware or software simulating forwarded logic, and it determines how the Forwarding plane of node 110,120,130 should forward received message.
Controller 140 can by formulating device model, submodel or networking primitive and model, submodel or primitive being forwarded to the Forwarding plane that node 110,120,130 carrys out Controlling vertex 110,120,130.Networking primitive can represent the basic networking function of distribution node 110,120,130, such as " realizes polling dispatching ".Submodel can represent the set providing the division of the function that can be used by distinct device or the network primitive of modularization group.Model can represent common definition or describe the expectation networking submodel of behavior or the set of primitive that realize the equipment of this model.Therefore, model can describe the expected behavior of the Forwarding plane for equipment.About Fig. 6, model, submodel and primitive are discussed in detail hereinafter.
Each or node 110,120,130 that different model, submodel or primitive can be sent in node 110,120 and 130 can be sent out identical or overlay model, submodel or primitive.
Use the configuration described in Fig. 1, controller 140 can serve as can the central authority of route in net control 100 or forwarding strategy.Thus, network manager can change the forwarding strategy of controller 140, and then it indicate individual nodes 110,120,130 to realize which kind of strategy.Alternatively or additionally, controller 140 dynamically can arrange forwarding strategy based on predetermined factors or by the state of monitoring network 100.
In order to realize the expected behavior of node 110,120,130, controller can lay down a regulation, such as network routing rule and/or forwarded rule, and rule is sent to node 110,120,130.Figure 2 illustrates exemplary network and forward rule 200.
Forwarded rule 200 can describe under certain conditions, such as receive enter packet time node expected behavior.Expected behavior can be specified according to one or more function identifier 210.Function identifier 210 can identify the function representing and perform the process defined of one or more task or the set of step.The function identified by function identifier 210 can be other possibilities such as algorithm, source code, program or subroutine, routine or subroutine, process or method (such as Java method) etc.
Function identifier 210 (such as function name) can provide the senior description of the desired function realized by function.But, the many modes realizing the function of being advised by function identifier 210 can be there are.Such as, if function identifier 210 advises that this function is to list ordering (such as function identifier 210 is " sort_list "), then this function can use the known sort algorithm of many differences (such as bubble sort, insertion sort, quicksort etc.) to realize list ordering.
If the function that the basis that the forwarding unit realizing forwarded rule 200 or can not have forwarded rule 200 makes a reservation for realization or identified by function identifier 210, create rule 200 by controller.Therefore, when forwarding unit not this original place implementation rule rule 200 or identified by function identifier 210 function, can specify in forwarded rule 200 and default or generally realize 220.Default or general realization can be the proposed algorithm provided by the controller realizing the function of being advised by function identifier 210.
But if this original place implementation rule 200 of forwarding unit or the predetermined version of function that identified by function identifier 210, realize compared with in the of 220 with general or default, basis makes a reservation for realization and can more effectively or more improve.Therefore, forwarded rule 200 provide specify general or default realize 220 can be capped " can cover? " mark 230.If by " can cover? " mark 230 is set to "Yes" or " 1 ", and such as, then forwarding unit can be ignored and general or defaultly realizes 220, replaces with the realization using the predetermined basis of forwarding unit to realize.If by " can cover? " mark 230 is set to "No" or " 0 ", then forwarding unit can not ignore by controller advise realize 220 and can use realize 220, replace the basis that realized by forwarding unit to realize.
One or more forwarded rule 200 can be collected in and can be sent to the specification of the forwarded rule of one or more equipment with forwarding capability from controller.The set of forwarded rule can be encapsulated as model or submodel.Such set can by common identifier identification.Individual networks forwards rule 200 also can accord with identification by individual marking, and the function in rule 200 also can be identified by function identifier 210.
Any one in above-mentioned identifier can be used to provide the prompting of expectation function about being realized by function, rule, model or submodel or function.Such as, the task of a common execution is the longest prefix match of the subnet mask found in routing table.By name function, such as " longest_prefix_match " or " LPM ", controller can provide this function to provide the prompting of the realization of the algorithm performing this common tasks.
Therefore, the forwarding unit realizing the forwarding capability receiving this function, rule, model or submodel can the identifier of analytic function, rule, model or submodel.Forwarding unit can analyze the identifier for this prompting, such as with suggestion by semantic information relevant for the identifier of the effect that performed by function, rule, model or submodel or function.Except identifier, other information in the assigned address of the such as head of function, rule, model or submodel.
After identifying the prompting relevant with identifier, can by this prompting compared with the identifier in the database describing the predetermined function realized by forwarding unit basis.Such as, Fig. 3 describes the fulfillment database 300 of the function realized by forwarding unit basis.Although it should be noted that the fulfillment database 300 in Fig. 3 relates to function, also can provide in fulfillment database 300 or another database and regular, that model is relevant with submodel information.
Fulfillment database 300 may reside in forwarding unit.As an alternative, fulfillment database 300 may reside in the position away from forwarding unit, and can be accessed via network by forwarding unit.
What fulfillment database 300 can be provided for the one or more functions realized by the forwarding unit basis be associated with fulfillment database 300 realizes details.Realizing details can based on function identifier index.Such as, fulfillment database 300 can comprise for the first function identifier 310 and realize 312, for the second function identifier 320 and realize 322 and for the 3rd function identifier 330 and realize 332.Realize the details (such as algorithm) that 312,322,332 are provided for realizing the function described by function ID 310,320,330.Realize 312,322,332 to store with pattern compiler, make to realize 312,322,332 by forwarding unit execution, and do not need compiling to realize 312,322,332.
After reception comprises the rule of function, forwarding unit can analyze rule for realizing prompting as above or function.Such as, semantic information can be extracted from rule or function and whether there is tight fit between relatively to be determined by its function identifier 310,320,330 prompting sum functions identifier 310,320,330 one or more.Coupling needs not be exact matching.Such as, prompting can specify the function be used in rule to realize " longest_prefix_match ".Such prompting can match the function in the fulfillment database 300 be associated with the variant of identifier " longest_prefix_match " (such as exact matching) or " longest-prefix-match " or " LPM " or this identifier.
If identify the coupling being used for this rule or function in fulfillment database 300, then the forwarding unit be associated with fulfillment database 300 can use basis to realize 312,322,332, replaces the realization advised by the rule sent from controller.With reference to figure 4, such process is described hereinafter.
In step 410, the forwarding unit realizing forwarding capability can receive specification from controller.Specification can comprise the rule utilizing this function.In certain embodiments, specification can specify the submodel or model that are associated with the prompting of such as submodel identifier or model identifier, comprises the set of rule and/or networking primitive.
In step 415, forwarding unit can check that rule and/or function are to determine whether this function can be capped.Such as, forwarding unit can check rule and/or function " can cover? " the existence of mark.
If find that rule or function can cover in step 415, then the list of the function of specifying in specification, rule, model or submodel and the known function, rule, model or the submodel that are realized by forwarding unit basis can be compared in step 420 forwarding unit.Such as, the list of known function, rule, model or submodel can be stored in the fulfillment database by identifier index.In step 430, function, rule, model or the submodel that (such as by function, rule, model or submodel that hash is specified in specification) specify in specification can be searched in a database and determine that corresponding basis realizes whether being present in fulfillment database.
If do not find that function can cover in step 415, then process can proceed to step 450.
If determine that function, rule, model or the submodel of specifying in specification is present in known function, rule, model or the submodel realized by forwarding unit basis in step 430, then the predetermined basis from fulfillment database can be used to realize the rule realizing specifying in step 410 in step 440 forwarding unit.Predetermined basis realizes being different from the realization of specifying in the specification carrying out self-controller.
If the realization stored in fulfillment database stores with compiled format, if then such as identify this realization by the prompting from specification being compared with the function identifier stored in function data storehouse, this realization need not by solution compiling.Thus, by using the prompting provided by the specification that the effect of function is relevant, forwarding unit can save processing power, time and resource.
If be that function, rule, model or the submodel of specifying in specification is not present in known function, rule, model or the submodel realized by forwarding unit basis in the determination of step 430, then can from the specification retrieval recommendation received in step 410, general or default realization in step 450.Such as, rule can (all forms as shown in Figure 2) exist in a predetermined format, and the known location that realization may reside in rule.Therefore, forwarding unit can realize from known location retrieval.As an alternative, rule can comprise the header information provided about the position of the realization in rule and the details of size (maybe can retrieve the remote location of realization).Use this information, forwarding unit can retrieve realization.
In step 460, forwarding unit can be used in the recommendation of specifying in specification, default or general purpose function to realize this rule.
As an alternative, the realization specific to equipment retrieved from remote location or storehouse can be attempted.Such as, if forwarding unit can be connected to comprise function realize storehouse server and exist, realize from this library searching function.
In order to generate above-mentioned specification, controller (transmitting controller 140 of such as Fig. 1) can produce specification according to all processes as described in Figure 5.
In step 510, controller can work out the forwarded rule comprising function.Based in controller storage or the list of rules by controller access, forwarded rule can be formulated.Can based on multiple factor, the size of the connection in such as network or quantity, time delay, the level of network traffics, the specific forwarding unit be present in network, the configuration of the server be present in network or the specification etc. of network manager determine that particular network forwards the selection of rule.
Can provide identifier for function and/or rule, it can be used as the prompting of the expectation function of related functions or rule.Identifier can be stored in the list of rule, can store, can carry out remote access by the identifier searched in remote library or database for this function or rule or can directly to obtain etc. from this function or rule that other is possible together by function.
Forwarded rule can be encapsulated into a group network that can be expressed as submodel or model and forward in rule (see below the submodel of composition graphs 6 or the description of model).Submodel or model can by common identifier identifications.
Can by forwarded rule, function, submodel and/or model write specification.Specification can only comprise rule, function, submodel or model, maybe can comprise multiple rule, function, submodel or model, may in conjunction with other information being exclusively used in forwarding unit.
Specification can be write with modeling language.Modeling language can be that the irrelevant or environment of the equipment that can be explained by distinct device or operating environment has nothing to do generic representation.Modeling language can support multiple realizations of rule, function, submodel or model.Modeling language can change at forwarding unit or controller or another equipment place specific to equipment or the realization specific to operating environment.
In step 520, the recommendation of function, default or general realization and being write in specification can be provided by controller.Recommend, default or general realization can from the list retrieval of rule or function, can be stored in controller storehouse or can remotely store and be retrieved by controller.In step 530, controller can by " can cover? " traffic sign placement becomes 1 to indicate the predetermined realization that the basis at forwarding unit place can be utilized to realize to come the recommendation of alternative functions, default or general realization, if such realization is present in forwarding unit.
Specification can be provided for one or more functions that function uses together alternatively.Such as, specification can provide the one or more input values used by forwarding unit when running function.Can by forwarding unit application parameter, no matter whether forwarding unit use the predetermined basis of function to realize, or the recommendation of being specified by controller, general or default realization.
In step 540, forwarded rule can be forwarded to forwarding unit.Such as, the specification comprising forwarded rule can use transmitter (such as transmitting set, ethernet port or other web-transporting devices) to be sent to forwarding unit by network at outbound interface.After reception forwarded rule, forwarding unit can take all actions described with reference to FIG. 4.
One or more above-mentioned action can be encoded into the computer executable instructions that can be performed by processing logic.Computer executable instructions can be stored in one or more non-emporary computer-readable medium.One or more above-mentioned action can perform in the electronic equipment of suitably programming.Fig. 6 describes the example that can be suitable for the electronic equipment 600 used together with one or more action disclosed herein.
Electronic equipment 600 can adopt many forms, includes but not limited to computing machine, workstation, server, network computer, quantum computer, optical computer, internet device, mobile device, pager, panel computer, intelligent sensor, dedicated treatment facility etc.
Electronic equipment 600 is exemplary, and can adopt other forms.Such as, the alternative of electronic equipment 600 realizes can having less assembly, more multicompartment or with the assembly in the configuration different from the configuration of Fig. 6.The assembly of Fig. 6 and/or other figure described herein can use the combination (such as mixed logic) of hardware based logic, the logic based on software and/or the logic based on hardware and software to realize, therefore, Fig. 6 and/or the assembly shown in other figure are not limited to the logic of particular type.
Processor 602 can comprise the combination of the software of the hardware based logic of hardware based logical OR and execution instruction, represents electronic equipment 600.Processor 602 can comprise can be explained, performs and/or logic that in addition pack processing is contained in the information in such as storer 604.Information can comprise the computer executable instructions and/or data that can realize one or more embodiment of the present invention.Processor 602 can comprise various similar or foreign peoples's hardware.Hardware can comprise such as one or more processor, microprocessor, field programmable gate array (FPGA), ASIP (ASIP), special IC (ASIC), CPLD (CPLD), Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) maybe can be explained, perform, operate and/or certain combination of the processing logic of the other types of process information in addition.Processor can comprise monokaryon or multinuclear 603.In addition, processor 602 can comprise SOC (system on a chip) (SoC) or system in package (SiP).
Electronic equipment 600 can comprise one or more tangible non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, for storing one or more computer executable instructions or software that can realize one or more embodiment of the present invention.Non-emporary computer-readable medium can be such as storer 604 or storage 618.Storer 604 can comprise the RAM that can comprise the RAM equipment that can store information.RAM equipment can be volatibility or non-volatile and can comprise the RAM equipment of such as one or more DRAM equipment, flash memory device, SRAM equipment, zero capacitance RAM (ZRAM) equipment, pair transistor RAM (TTRAM) equipment, ROM (read-only memory) (ROM) equipment, ferroelectric RAM (FeRAM) equipment, magnetic resistance RAM (MRAM) equipment, phase transition storage RAM (PRAM) equipment or other types.
One or more electronic equipment 600 can comprise the virtual machine (VM) 605 for performing the instruction loaded in the memory 604.Virtual machine 605 can be provided to process the process operated on multiple processor, make this process can seem only to use a computational resource, instead of multiple computational resource.Virtually can be used in electronic equipment 600, to make it possible to the architecture in dynamically shared electron equipment and resource.Multiple VM 605 can reside in single computing equipment 600.
Hardware accelerator 606 can realize with ASIC, FPGA or some other equipment.Hardware accelerator 606 can be used for reducing general processing time of electronic equipment 600.
Electronic equipment 600 can comprise by various connection, include but not limited to standard phone line, LAN or wide-area network link (such as T1, T3,56kb, X.25), (such as ISDN (Integrated Service Digital Network) (ISDN), frame relay, asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), wireless connections (such as 802.11), high-speed interconnect (such as InfiniBand, gigabit Ethernet, Myrinet) or above-mentioned any one or whole combinations, interface is to the network interface 608 of LAN (Local Area Network) (LAN), wide area network (WAN) or wide area network in broadband connection.Network interface 608 can comprise built-in network adapter, network interface unit, PCMCIA (personal computer memory card international association) (PCMCIA) network card, card bus network adapter, wireless network adapter, USB (universal serial bus) (USB) network adapter, modulator-demodular unit or be suitable for electronic equipment 600 interface to communicating and performing any other equipment of the network of any type of operation described herein.
Electronic equipment 600 can comprise one or more input equipments 610 that can be used for such as receiving input from user, such as keyboard, multiple point touching interface, indicating equipment (such as mouse), gyroscope, accelerometer, haptic apparatus, stereognosis equipment, neural equipment, microphone or camera.Note, electronic equipment 600 can comprise other suitable I/O peripherals.
Input equipment 610 can allow user to provide the input be recorded in visual display device 614.Graphic user interface (GUI) 616 may be displayed on display device 614.
Memory device 618 also can be associated with computing machine 600.Memory device 618 can may have access to processor 602 through I/O bus.Can be performed by processor 602, explain, operate and/or process information.Memory device 618 can comprise such as memory device, such as disk, CD (such as CD-ROM, DVD player), random access memory (RAM) dish, tape cell and/or flash driver.Information can be stored on one or more non-momentary tangible computer computer-readable recording mediums of being included in memory device.This medium can comprise such as disk, CD, tape and/or memory device (such as flash memory device, static RAM (SRAM) (SRAM) equipment, dynamic ram (DRAM) equipment or other memory devices).Information can comprise the data and/or computer executable instructions that can realize one or more embodiment of the present invention.
Memory device 618 can store application 624 further, and electronic equipment 600 can operation system (OSA) 626.The example of OS 626 can comprise
operating system, Unix and (SuSE) Linux OS, for macintosh computer
the embedded OS of operating system, such as Symbian OS, real time operating system, open source operating system, exclusive operating system, for mobile electronic device operating system or can run on an electronic device and perform other operating systems of operation described herein.Operating system can be run with this proterotype or simulation model.
Memory device 618 may further include description in a communication network should the rule 628 of how forwarding messages.Service regeulations 628 can forward the message or information that receive at electronic equipment 628.Therefore, electronic equipment 600 can be used as forwarding unit, switch or router.
Memory device 618 can store fulfillment database 630.Fulfillment database 630 can be data structure, such as table or matrix, and it stores the identifier identifying the predefined function realized by electronic equipment 630.What fulfillment database can store predefined function further realizes details.
Memory device 618 may further include the logic for realizing communication protocol 640.Communication protocol logic 640 can be for realizing being provided for accessing and the logic of agreement of interface of function of Forwarding plane of amendment electronic equipment 600.Exemplary communication protocols include but not limited to OpenFlow agreement (see the people's such as such as McKeown, Nick " OpenFlow:EnablingInnovation in Campus Networks; " ACM SIGCOMM ComputerCommunication Review Archive, Vol.38issue 2, pp.69-74 (in April, 2008), its full content is herein incorporated by introducing) or self-defining communication protocol.Thus, electronic equipment 600 can be used as remote controllers, all remote controllers 140 described with reference to FIG. 1.
Communication protocol logic 640 can allow the details defining and/or revise the Forwarding plane realized by electronic equipment 600.Therefore, communication protocol logic 640 allows to make communication network able to programme.
Communication protocol logic 640 can be supported to use one or more model 642 to realize the function of Forwarding plane.Model 642 can represent the whole set of the forwarded function realized by electronic equipment 600.Such as, model 642 can define function and the performance of Forwarding plane.
Model 642 can merge one or more submodel.Submodel can represent the set of the primitive function realized in model 642.By model 642 is divided into submodel, encourage modularity and division.
Submodel can comprise one or more networking primitive.Networking primitive is by the base unit of the function realized by electronic equipment 600.Networking primitive can be such as by the description by specific function in a communication network.Networking primitive can describe electronic equipment 600 intends to perform which kind of action, but the usual requirement not comprising those actions and will how to perform.Thus, networking primitive can describe expected result, and be not provided for realizing this result realize details.Can leave realizing details the particular device realizing networking primitive for, or can be specified by external unit.
Such as, electronic equipment 600 (serving as forwarding unit) can be specified will to realize with the relevant networking primitive of queuing up plane is queued up, level is queued up, buffer resource shared, dynamic buffering size, tail drop queue management, the queue management of weighting tail drop or queue height low watermark.Dispatcher primitive can specify scheduling in repeating query mode, should to queue up or strict priority queuing, Weighted Fair Queuing or class-based Weighted Fair Queuing as weighted round ring, low time delay.Metering primitive can utilize speed dichromatism (1R2C) IP packet marking, 1R3C to mark or 2R3C mark.Also other networking primitive multiple can be utilized.That can not specify networking primitive realizes details, but leaves the equipment decision realizing primitive for.
Submodel can be constructed to the set of one or more networking primitive.Such as, a submodel can specify electronic equipment 600 to queue up using the plane with Round Robin.
Multiple submodel can be arranged to the device model 642 of the all-network route/forwarding capability of specifying electronic equipment 600.Such as, model 642 can indicate at some environment, during such as high or low network traffics or when receiving the packet of some type, by use first submodel, and in other circumstances by use second submodel.By amendment model 642, network manager can make electronic equipment 600 show different forwarded behaviors.
Communication protocol 640 can reference model 642 (building submodel and primitive) and use the function defined by fulfillment database 630 to realize the function defined by model 642.As an alternative, communication protocol 640 can use the local default or general realization storing or provide from the remote location of such as remote controllers together with communication protocol 640.
The computer executable instructions and/or data that can realize on one or more non-momentary tangible computer computer-readable recording medium can be used to realize one or more embodiment of the present invention.Medium can be but be not limited to hard disk, compact disk, digital versatile disc, flash card, programmable read only memory (PROM), random access memory (RAM), ROM (read-only memory) (ROM), magnetoresistive RAM (MRAM), tape or other computer-readable mediums.
Fig. 7 describes the real-time performance that can realize one or more embodiment of the present invention.System 700 can comprise computing equipment 600, network 712, ISP 713, targeted environment 714 and cluster 715.The embodiment of Fig. 7 is exemplary, and other embodiments can comprise the equipment in more equipment, less equipment or the configuration different from the configuration of Fig. 7.
Data can be transferred to destination from source by network 712.The embodiment of network 712 can use the network equipment, the connection (such as link) of such as router, switch, fire wall and/or server (not shown) and transmission data.Data can refer to the machine sensible information of any type with substantially any form that can be suitable for use in one or more network and/or use together with one or more equipment (such as computing equipment 600, ISP 713 etc.).Data can comprise numerical information or analog information.Can encapsulate further or not encapsulation of data.
Network 712 can be use the hard-wired network of wired conductor and/or optical fiber and/or can be the wireless network using Free Space Optics, radio frequency (RF) and/or sound transmission path.In one implementation, network 712 can be the public network substantially opened, such as internet.In a further implementation, network 712 can be more limited network, such as corporate Virtual network.Network 712 can comprise the network of internet, Intranet, LAN (Local Area Network) (LAN), wide area network (WAN), Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) (MAN), wireless network (such as using IEEE 802.11) or other types.Network 712 can use middleware, and such as Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) or Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) (DCOM) maybe can use Web service, such as REST service.The realization of the equipment that network and/or network described herein operate is not limited to such as any specific data type, agreement and/or framework/configuration.
ISP 713 can comprise the equipment making service can be used for another equipment.Such as, ISP 713 can comprise the entity (such as individual, company, educational institution, government bodies etc.) using server and/or other equipment to provide one or more service to destination.Service can comprise being performed by destination and realizes operating the instruction of (such as Optimum Operation).As an alternative, service can comprise represent destination perform represent destination realize operation instruction.
Server 714 can be included in equipment network 712 receiving information.Such as, server 714 can be the equipment receiving user's input from computing machine 600.
Cluster 715 can comprise multiple performance element (UE) 716 and perform process with another equipment that can represent computing machine 600 and/or such as ISP 713 or server 714.Such as, cluster 715 can perform parallel processing in the operation received from computing machine 600.Cluster 715 can comprise and resides on individual equipment or chip or the UE716 resided on multiple equipment or chip.
Performance element (UE) 716 can comprise the treatment facility of the equipment executable operations representing such as requesting service.UE can be the treatment facility of microprocessor, field programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or another type.UE716 can comprise code, such as the code of operating environment.Such as, UE can run a part of operating environment relevant to parallel processing behavior.ISP 713 can operate cluster 715 and (such as through Web service) can provide interaction optimizing ability to computing machine 600 on a subscription basis.
Performance element (UE) can be provided for application 624 long-range/distributed treatment ability.Hardware execution units can comprise the equipment (such as hardware resource) that can perform and/or participate in multiple programming activity.Such as, hardware execution units can perform in response to received request and/or task (such as directly or through agency receiving) and/or to participate in multiple programming movable.Hardware execution units can use one or more equipment to perform and/or participate in the multiple programming (such as task, data, stream process etc.) of any type substantially.Such as, hardware execution units can comprise the single treatment facility comprising multinuclear or multiple processor.Hardware execution units can also be programmable device, such as field programmable gate array (FPGA), special IC (ASIC), digital signal processor (DSP) or other programmable devices.The equipment be used in hardware execution units can be arranged with many difference configurations (or topology), such as grid, ring-type, starlike or other configurations.Hardware execution units can support one or more thread (or process) when performing process operation.
Software performance element can comprise the software resource (such as technique computes environment) that can perform and/or participate in one or more multiple programming activity.Software performance element can perform in response to one or more part of reception program and/or program and/or to participate in one or more multiple programming movable.Software performance element can use one or more hardware execution units to perform and/or participate in dissimilar multiple programming.Software performance element can support one or more thread and/or process when performing process operation.
Term " multiple programming " can be understood to include multiple multiple programming, such as tasks in parallel programming, data parallel programming and stream multiple programming.Multiple programming can comprise the various process that can be distributed in multiple resource (such as software performance element, hardware execution units, processor, microprocessor, cluster, laboratory) and can perform simultaneously.
Such as, multiple programming can be included in tasks in parallel programming when multiple software performance element processing simultaneously multiple task.In task multiple programming, can execute the task independently with other tasks such as performed simultaneously.
Multiple programming can comprise data parallel programming, wherein, data (such as data set) can be resolved to multiple parts that can use such as software performance element executed in parallel.In data parallel programming, software performance element and/or data division can intercom mutually with process progress.
Multiple programming can comprise stream multiple programming (being sometimes referred to as pipeline parallel method programming).Multiple software performance elements that stream multiple programming can use such as serial (such as going) to arrange, wherein, first software performance element can produce first result that can be fed to the second software performance element, and this second software performance element can produce the second result when given first result.Stream multiple programming can also comprise the state that can represent task matching with directed acyclic graph (DAG) or circular chart.
Other multiple programming technology can relate to separately or some combinations in conjunction with the task of the treatment technology of other types, data and/or stream multiple programming technology form hybrid parallel programming technique.
Foregoing description can provide example and the description of each embodiment of the present invention, but is not intended to be exhaustive or the present invention is limited to disclosed precise forms.In view of above-mentioned instruction, improvement and variant are possible, or can obtain from enforcement the present invention.Such as, although described above is a series of actions, the order of action can be revised in other consistent with principle of the present invention realize.In addition, the action of non-dependent can be performed concurrently.
In addition, when not deviating from spirit of the present invention, using the one or more equipment except those shown in figure and described in instructions and/or configuration, the one or more realizations consistent with principle of the present invention can be realized.Depend on specific deployments and/or application, can add and/or remove one or more equipment and/or assembly from the realization of figure.And one or more disclosed realizations can be not limited to the particular combination of hardware.
In addition, some part of the present invention can be embodied as the logic that can perform one or more function.This logic can comprise hardware, such as the combination of hardwire logic, special IC, field programmable gate array, microprocessor, software or hardware and software.
It is crucial or requisite that the element used in describing the invention, action or instruction should not be construed to the present invention, unless expressly stated so.Such as, when not using idling cycle analyzer 160 or uncertain system 110 whether is in idling cycle, also the present invention can be put into practice.Thus, whether non-delay sensitive request can be divided into son asks and serves, effectively irrelevant with idling cycle.As an alternative, when non-delay sensitive request not being divided into son request, also idling cycle analyzer 160 can be used.
Meanwhile, as used in this, article " " is intended to comprise one or more item.When be intended to only an item, use term " single " or similar language.In addition, phrase as used in this " based on " be intended to represent " at least in part based on ", unless otherwise expressly noted.In addition, term as used in this " user " is intended to broadly be construed to the user comprising such as electronic equipment (such as workstation) or electronic equipment, unless otherwise indicated.
Be intended to the invention is not restricted to above-mentioned disclosed specific embodiment, but the present invention is by any and all specific embodiments of comprising falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalent.
Claims (22)
1. store a non-emporary computer-readable medium for instruction, described instruction makes described one or more processor when being performed by one or more processor:
Receive specification at the electronic equipment place with forwarding capability, described specification comprises: rule, by the realization of the specified function that performed by described electronic equipment and described specified function;
Described specified function and known function collection are compared, described known function has the predetermined realization of being specified by described electronic equipment;
Locate the described specified function that described known function is concentrated;
Ignore the realization of specifying in described specification; And
The described predetermined realization of being specified by described electronic equipment is used to realize described specified function on described electronic equipment.
2. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, compiles the realization of described specified function, stores further and is used for following instruction:
Identify and the identifier that the functional dependence in described specification joins, described identifier provides the prompting of the effect about described specified function; And
Use predetermined realization to realize described specified function, and without the need to separating the realization of the described specified function of compiling.
3. medium as claimed in claim 2, stores the instruction for receiving the submodel of specifying the one group of function be associated with group identifier further.
4. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, realizes described function with this original place of hardware in described electronic equipment.
5. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, the description that described canonical representation is write with modeling language.
6. medium as claimed in claim 5, wherein, described modeling language supports multiple realizations of described function.
7. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, described known function collection comprises and realizes the different realizations for described specified function in described specification.
8. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, described specification is provided for one or more parameters of described rule.
9. medium as claimed in claim 8, wherein, when use by described electronic equipment specify predetermined realize time, by parameter described in described electronic apparatus application.
10. medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein, described rule is network routing rule.
11. 1 kinds of methods, comprising:
Receive specification at the electronic equipment place with forwarding capability, described specification comprises: by the realization of the specified function that performed by described electronic equipment and described specified function;
Described specified function and known function collection are compared, described known function has the predetermined realization of being specified by described electronic equipment;
The described specified function that described known function is concentrated can not be located; And
The realization of being specified by described specification is used to realize described specified function on described electronic equipment.
12. methods as claimed in claim 11, wherein, the description that described canonical representation is write with modeling language.
13. methods as claimed in claim 12, wherein, described modeling language supports multiple realizations of described function.
14. methods as claimed in claim 11, wherein, described rule is network routing rule.
15. 1 kinds of systems, comprising:
For the known technology being used for measure for fulfill being stored storer in a database; And
Processor, is configured to:
Receive the request of application rule, described rule uses described function, and described request specifies the recommendation of described function to realize;
Search described function in the database;
The described recommendation covered in described request realizes, and substitutes with the known technology stored in the database, and
Use described known technology to apply described rule.
16. systems as claimed in claim 15, wherein, compile the realization of described specified function, store further and are used for following instruction:
Identify and the identifier that the functional dependence in described specification joins, described identifier provides the prompting of the effect about described specified function; And
Use predetermined realization to realize described specified function, and without the need to connecing the realization compiling described specified function.
17. systems as claimed in claim 16, wherein, described processor is further configured to the submodel receiving and specify the one group of function be associated with group identifier.
18. systems as claimed in claim 15, wherein, realize described function with this original place of hardware in the system.
19. systems as claimed in claim 15, wherein, described specification is provided for one or more parameters of described rule.
20. systems as claimed in claim 19, wherein, when use by described electronic equipment specify predetermined realize time, by parameter described in described electronic apparatus application.
21. systems as claimed in claim 15, wherein, described rule is network routing rule.
22. 1 kinds of route systems, comprising:
Path control deivce, described path control deivce formulates the specification being used for forwarding unit, described specification merges network route function, described specification specifies the recommendation of described function to realize, and if this original place of described forwarding unit realizes described function, then provide instruction can cover the described mark recommending to realize; And
Transmitter, for being forwarded to described forwarding unit by described rule.
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US13/776,036 | 2013-02-25 | ||
US13/776,036 US9166912B2 (en) | 2013-02-25 | 2013-02-25 | Translating network forwarding plane models into target implementation using sub models and hints |
PCT/US2014/018387 WO2014131026A1 (en) | 2013-02-25 | 2014-02-25 | Implementing specifications related to a network forwarding plane of an electronic device having forwarding functionality |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105009080A true CN105009080A (en) | 2015-10-28 |
CN105009080B CN105009080B (en) | 2018-10-16 |
Family
ID=50280502
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201480010386.2A Active CN105009080B (en) | 2013-02-25 | 2014-02-25 | Realization specification related with the forwarded plane of the electronic equipment with forwarding capability |
Country Status (7)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US9166912B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP2959379B1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN105009080B (en) |
DE (1) | DE202014010916U1 (en) |
DK (1) | DK2959379T3 (en) |
HK (1) | HK1221026A1 (en) |
WO (1) | WO2014131026A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9166912B2 (en) * | 2013-02-25 | 2015-10-20 | Google Inc. | Translating network forwarding plane models into target implementation using sub models and hints |
US9172604B1 (en) | 2013-02-25 | 2015-10-27 | Google Inc. | Target mapping and implementation of abstract device model |
WO2016049885A1 (en) | 2014-09-30 | 2016-04-07 | 华为技术有限公司 | Routing method, near field communication controller, device host, and terminal |
US9948505B2 (en) * | 2015-05-05 | 2018-04-17 | Citrix Systems, Inc. | Systems and methods for integrating a device with a software-defined networking controller |
US11588739B2 (en) * | 2017-11-21 | 2023-02-21 | Nicira, Inc. | Enhanced management of communication rules over multiple computing networks |
Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020052927A1 (en) * | 2000-11-20 | 2002-05-02 | Lg Electronics Inc. | Initialization file downloading apparatus and method of cable modem |
US20020141343A1 (en) * | 2001-03-28 | 2002-10-03 | Bays Robert James | Methods, apparatuses and systems facilitating deployment, support and configuration of network routing policies |
CN101853433A (en) * | 2002-07-19 | 2010-10-06 | 开放创新网络有限责任公司 | Foundation is used to send the method for the route of file |
CN101911063A (en) * | 2007-12-04 | 2010-12-08 | 泰勒斯公司 | Method of forwarding messages over a network and system for implementing the method |
EP2485143A1 (en) * | 2011-02-04 | 2012-08-08 | Siemens Aktiengesellschaft | Updating a web package within a manufacturing execution system |
Family Cites Families (37)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
JP3546764B2 (en) | 1999-07-02 | 2004-07-28 | 日本電気株式会社 | Load balancing server provided in network and node including load balancing server |
US6958980B2 (en) | 2000-12-20 | 2005-10-25 | Nortel Networks Limited | Establishing call sessions between terminals through plural switch systems |
US20030128700A1 (en) | 2002-01-09 | 2003-07-10 | International Business Machines Corporation | Method and system for providing a filter for a router |
JP2003258842A (en) * | 2002-02-28 | 2003-09-12 | Ntt Docomo Inc | Packet communication system and transferring device |
WO2003075917A1 (en) | 2002-03-08 | 2003-09-18 | Signal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. | Combination therapy for treating, preventing or managing proliferative disorders and cancers |
US7215640B2 (en) | 2002-07-11 | 2007-05-08 | Hitachi, Ltd. | Method and apparatus for path configuration in networks |
US7860392B2 (en) | 2003-06-06 | 2010-12-28 | Dynamic Method Enterprises Limited | Optical network topology databases based on a set of connectivity constraints |
JP3949696B2 (en) * | 2003-08-20 | 2007-07-25 | 日本電信電話株式会社 | Protocol acceleration device |
EP1530137A1 (en) | 2003-11-10 | 2005-05-11 | Robert Bosch Gmbh | Simulation system and computer-implemented method for simulation and verifying a control system |
US7430760B2 (en) * | 2003-12-05 | 2008-09-30 | Microsoft Corporation | Security-related programming interface |
US8996646B2 (en) | 2004-07-09 | 2015-03-31 | Codemate A/S | Peer of a peer-to-peer network and such network |
US8254285B2 (en) | 2005-02-25 | 2012-08-28 | Ip Infusion, Inc. | Hardware abstraction layer |
EP1758334A1 (en) | 2005-08-26 | 2007-02-28 | Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. | Establishment of media sessions with media adaptation |
US8576831B2 (en) | 2005-12-06 | 2013-11-05 | National Institute Of Information And Communications Technology | Wireless network system carrying out multihop wireless communication between source and destination |
CN101026616B (en) | 2006-02-18 | 2013-01-09 | 华为技术有限公司 | Multimedia subsystem based interactive media session establishing system and method |
US20070223397A1 (en) * | 2006-03-24 | 2007-09-27 | Sergey Gerasimov | Network configuration |
US20070274230A1 (en) | 2006-05-23 | 2007-11-29 | Werber Ryan A | System and method for modifying router firmware |
US8885632B2 (en) | 2006-08-02 | 2014-11-11 | Silver Peak Systems, Inc. | Communications scheduler |
US8176525B2 (en) | 2006-09-29 | 2012-05-08 | Rockstar Bidco, L.P. | Method and system for trusted contextual communications |
US8040820B2 (en) | 2007-03-06 | 2011-10-18 | Cisco Technology, Inc. | Modelling service flows in dynamic access domains |
US20080252518A1 (en) | 2007-03-21 | 2008-10-16 | Yerachmiel Yeshayahu | Method and apparatus for determining location using a hybrid solution |
US20080307240A1 (en) | 2007-06-08 | 2008-12-11 | Texas Instruments Incorporated | Power management electronic circuits, systems, and methods and processes of manufacture |
US7653009B2 (en) | 2007-09-10 | 2010-01-26 | Juniper Networks, Inc. | Routing network packets based on electrical power procurement arrangements |
US8429739B2 (en) * | 2008-03-31 | 2013-04-23 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Authorizing communications between computing nodes |
US8327014B2 (en) | 2008-06-30 | 2012-12-04 | Cisco Technology, Inc. | Multi-layer hardware-based service acceleration (MHSA) |
US8209158B1 (en) | 2008-07-03 | 2012-06-26 | The Mathworks, Inc. | Processor-in-the-loop co-simulation of a model |
US9042395B2 (en) | 2009-05-01 | 2015-05-26 | Ciena Corporation | E-spring support of Ethernet protection |
US8634316B2 (en) * | 2010-10-19 | 2014-01-21 | At&T Intellectual Property I, L.P. | Methods and apparatus to utilize route aggregation for exchanging routes in a communication network |
US8893216B2 (en) * | 2011-06-15 | 2014-11-18 | Cisco Technology, Inc. | Security measures for the smart grid |
US8953574B2 (en) * | 2011-11-28 | 2015-02-10 | Qualcomm Incorporated | Wireless bridging in a hybrid communication network |
US8521905B2 (en) | 2011-12-22 | 2013-08-27 | Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (Publ) | System for flexible and extensible flow processing in software-defined networks |
US8711860B2 (en) | 2011-12-22 | 2014-04-29 | Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (Publ) | Controller for flexible and extensible flow processing in software-defined networks |
US8683028B2 (en) | 2012-03-09 | 2014-03-25 | Ciena Corporation | Generic multi-layer provisioning service management layer systems and methods |
US9705918B2 (en) | 2012-05-22 | 2017-07-11 | Sri International | Security mediation for dynamically programmable network |
US9288106B2 (en) | 2012-11-02 | 2016-03-15 | Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) | Adding device-wide capabilities and parameters to split-architecture devices |
US9923831B2 (en) | 2012-11-29 | 2018-03-20 | Futurewei Technologies, Inc. | Packet prioritization in a software-defined network implementing OpenFlow |
US9166912B2 (en) * | 2013-02-25 | 2015-10-20 | Google Inc. | Translating network forwarding plane models into target implementation using sub models and hints |
-
2013
- 2013-02-25 US US13/776,036 patent/US9166912B2/en active Active
-
2014
- 2014-02-25 DE DE202014010916.8U patent/DE202014010916U1/en not_active Expired - Lifetime
- 2014-02-25 EP EP14710451.7A patent/EP2959379B1/en active Active
- 2014-02-25 WO PCT/US2014/018387 patent/WO2014131026A1/en active Application Filing
- 2014-02-25 CN CN201480010386.2A patent/CN105009080B/en active Active
- 2014-02-25 DK DK14710451.7T patent/DK2959379T3/en active
-
2016
- 2016-06-03 HK HK16106375.4A patent/HK1221026A1/en unknown
Patent Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20020052927A1 (en) * | 2000-11-20 | 2002-05-02 | Lg Electronics Inc. | Initialization file downloading apparatus and method of cable modem |
US20020141343A1 (en) * | 2001-03-28 | 2002-10-03 | Bays Robert James | Methods, apparatuses and systems facilitating deployment, support and configuration of network routing policies |
CN101853433A (en) * | 2002-07-19 | 2010-10-06 | 开放创新网络有限责任公司 | Foundation is used to send the method for the route of file |
CN101911063A (en) * | 2007-12-04 | 2010-12-08 | 泰勒斯公司 | Method of forwarding messages over a network and system for implementing the method |
EP2485143A1 (en) * | 2011-02-04 | 2012-08-08 | Siemens Aktiengesellschaft | Updating a web package within a manufacturing execution system |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
DE202014010916U1 (en) | 2017-02-08 |
HK1221026A1 (en) | 2017-05-19 |
CN105009080B (en) | 2018-10-16 |
EP2959379A1 (en) | 2015-12-30 |
US20140241348A1 (en) | 2014-08-28 |
US9166912B2 (en) | 2015-10-20 |
EP2959379B1 (en) | 2021-05-26 |
WO2014131026A1 (en) | 2014-08-28 |
DK2959379T3 (en) | 2021-08-02 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105009080A (en) | Implementing specifications related to a network forwarding plane of an electronic device having forwarding functionality | |
CN110419200A (en) | Packet handler in virtual filter platform | |
CN104541247B (en) | System and method for adjusting cloud computing system | |
EP2410500B1 (en) | Network system | |
CN105591978A (en) | Network Based Service Function Chaining | |
CN106487719A (en) | The system and method making network function externalizing via packet relaying | |
CN101986271B (en) | Method and device for dispatching TCAM (telecommunication access method) query and refresh messages | |
CN109086140A (en) | The method, apparatus and storage medium of data processing are carried out in block chain | |
CN111355816B (en) | Server selection method, device, equipment and distributed service system | |
US20140241347A1 (en) | Static translation of network forwarding plane models into target implementation in the hardware abstraction layer | |
CN105683918A (en) | Centralized networking configuration in distributed systems | |
CN108574627B (en) | SDN network multi-control-domain cooperative management method and system | |
CN105634974A (en) | Route determining method and apparatus in software-defined networking | |
CN108134812A (en) | Data processing method and device | |
Liu et al. | Cyber physical systems: architectures, protocols and applications | |
TWI454949B (en) | Distributed resource management systems and methods for resource management thereof | |
CN107133160A (en) | Test system | |
CN107995032A (en) | A kind of method and device that network experimental platform is built based on cloud data center | |
EP2912811B1 (en) | Traffic engineering system for preventing demand deadlock and achieving uniform link utilization | |
CN109992252A (en) | A kind of data analysing method based on Internet of Things, terminal, device and storage medium | |
CN110266598A (en) | A kind of routing information processing method, apparatus, equipment and readable storage medium storing program for executing | |
JP2015007876A (en) | Control request method, information processing device, system, and program | |
WO2023198020A1 (en) | Method and apparatus for adding vehicle to virtual scene, and computer device, storage medium and program product | |
CN110050446A (en) | Programmable low time delay switching network for router extending transversely | |
JP2016127393A (en) | Information processing unit, method and program |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |