CN105701172A - Determining answers to interrogative queries using web resources - Google Patents
Determining answers to interrogative queries using web resources Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105701172A CN105701172A CN201511035359.3A CN201511035359A CN105701172A CN 105701172 A CN105701172 A CN 105701172A CN 201511035359 A CN201511035359 A CN 201511035359A CN 105701172 A CN105701172 A CN 105701172A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- entity
- extra
- inquiry
- relationship
- relationship entity
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Pending
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/20—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor of structured data, e.g. relational data
- G06F16/28—Databases characterised by their database models, e.g. relational or object models
- G06F16/284—Relational databases
- G06F16/288—Entity relationship models
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/951—Indexing; Web crawling techniques
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/953—Querying, e.g. by the use of web search engines
- G06F16/9535—Search customisation based on user profiles and personalisation
Abstract
Methods and apparatus related to using web resources to determine an answer for a query. Some implementations are directed generally to determining answers to interrogative queries that are submitted by users via computing devices of the users, such as typed or spoken queries submitted via a search engine interface. Some implementations are directed to determining answers to interrogative queries that are automatically formulated to identify missing information, verify existing information, and/or update existing information in a structured entity database.
Description
Background technology
Search engine provides the information about the such as resource of webpage, image, text document and/or content of multimedia etc。Search engine may be in response to include the search inquiry of the user of one or more search terms and identify resource。Search engine to these resource rankings based on the resource dependency to inquiry and the importance of resource, and provides and includes the aspect of identified resource and/or the Search Results of link。
Summary of the invention
This explanation is usually directed to use with web resource and determines the answer for inquiry。Such as, based on the text fragments identified from the Search Results resource inquired about in response to query, it may be determined that for the answer of query inquiry。As described in detail later, available various technology determine that query is inquired about, and to determine Search Results resource, to determine the text fragments of Search Results resource, and/or determine one or more answer based on text fragments。
Answer is determined in some query inquiries realizing relating to being submitted to via the computing equipment of user by user, such as the key entry submitted to via search engine interface or speech polling。For example, it may be possible to query inquiry " what peak in Louisville city, the Kentucky State is " submitted to via computing equipment by user。The answer for query inquiry is may determine that based on the text fragments identified from the Search Results resource inquired about in response to query。Such as, the fragment coming from the multiple webpages in response to query inquiry can include place " Nan Baishan (SouthParkHill) " (such as, fragment such as " peak is Nan Baishan; height above sea level 902 feet ... " and " near Nan Baishan (height above sea level 902), peak ... ")。Based on one or more factors, place " Nan Baishan " is confirmed as the answer for query inquiry, above-mentioned factor as: it be noted as place (as, may identify which that place is answer based on " where " that occur in inquiring about in query), it have in fragment with query inquiry other word syntactic relation (as, position and/or analytic tree relation to " peak "), including the counting of the fragment quoted to place, and/or other factors。In response to query inquiry determined answer can be supplied to computing equipment for give user with vision and/or the presenting of audition。As an example, combine with other Search Results inquired about for query alternatively, to highlight the determined answer of offer in search result web page。
Some realize relating to determining the answer to the query inquiry automatically formulated, to identify loss information, checking existing information in the architectural entities data base of such as knowledge mapping etc and/or to update existing information。Such as, available technique described herein searches the lost objects in (theme, relation, object) ternary of architectural entities data base。For example it is assumed that actress " Zhan Nifu Anne Si " is the known entities in entity data bak, but entity data bak does not define where she is born。Theme (Zhan Nifu Anne Si) and relation (such as " birthplace ") based on ternary can generate one or more query inquiry, such as inquiry: " where Zhan Nifu Anne Si is born "。In some implementations, based on other the known relation to entity, optionally generate one or more query inquiry。Such as, actress " Zhan Nifu Anne Si " can have " occupation " relation being associated with " actress ", and the query inquiry generated can be " where actress Zhan Nifu Anne Si is born "。Can recognize that the text fragments coming from the Search Results resource in response to one or more queries inquiry and be utilized to determine the answer to query inquiry, and answer can be utilized to carry out the object lost in the ternary of interstitital texture entity data bak。Such as, multiple text fragments may indicate that Zhan Nifu Anne Si is born in " Los Angeles of California ", and the entity being associated with Los Angeles city can be included as the object lost in ternary。
In some implementations, it is provided that the method that computer performs, the method includes: identify entity, the relation of structured database definition inter-entity in structured database；Structured database is determined the entity lacking enough associations for relation, for relation enough associations lack instruction one of following situations: relation be there is no to any association of entity, and for entity associated that relation is not determined；At least one query inquiry is generated based on entity and relation；Identify the text fragments of the Search Results resource inquired about in response to query；Based on text fragments, it is determined that for one or more candidate answers of query inquiry；Select at least one answer in candidate answers；And tying up to definition association in structured database for closing, this is associated between entity and the relationship entity being associated with answer。
Other of this method and presently disclosed technology realizes, and each can include one or more following features alternatively。
In some implementations, in the one or more annotations being associated with text fragments, answer is associated with relationship entity。
In some implementations, the method farther includes: determine that this relationship entity is previously undefined in this structured database；At least one extra query inquiry is generated based on this relationship entity and extra relation；Content based on the extra Search Results of the query inquiry extra in response to this, it is determined that at least one extra relationship entity, this extra relationship entity is different from this entity and different with this relationship entity；And in this structured database, for the extra association between this relationship entity and this extra relationship entity of this extra contextual definition。In some of those realizations, it is determined that at least one extra relationship entity includes: identify the extra text fragments of extra Search Results resource；Based on the text fragments that this is extra, it is determined that include the additional relationships entity of one or more candidates of extra relationship entity；And from the additional relationships entity of candidate, select additional relationships entity。
In some implementations, the method farther includes: determine that this relationship entity is previously undefined in this structured database；At least one extra inquiry is generated based on this relationship entity；And the content of the one or more extra Search Results resource based on the inquiry extra in response to this, determine that this relationship entity is effective entity, wherein based on a determination that this relationship entity is effective entity, for this relation genetic definition association between this entity and this relationship entity。In some of those realizations, based on extra relation and determine that this relationship entity is at least one the extra inquiry of effective solid generation, including: based on the text fragments of this extra Search Results resource in response to inquiry, determining the association between this relationship entity and the relationship entity that at least one is extra, this extra relationship entity is different from this entity and is different from this relationship entity。
In some implementations, the method farther includes: identify this relationship entity and the additional relationships of extra relationship entity, and this extra relationship entity is associated with this relationship entity for this extra relation；Based on this relationship entity, this additional relationships and at least one additional queries of this solid generation；And determine the generation of this additional relationships entity in the extra Search Results resource in response to this additional queries；Wherein define associating based on the generation of this additional relationships entity in extra Search Results resource between this entity with this relationship entity。In realizing as some, generate this extra inquiry and be based further on this relation。
In some implementations, generate this query inquiry based on this entity and this relation and include: based on one or more first words of another name this inquiry of generation of entity, and generate one or more second words of this inquiry based on the word being mapped to this relation。
In some implementations, identify that the text fragments of Search Results resource includes: based on described fragment include following at least one identify this fragment: the another name of entity and the word being associated with the syntactic property being mapped to this relation。
In some implementations, identify the text fragments of Search Results resource, including: submit query inquiry in response to search system, receive this fragment from this search system。
In some implementations, determine that one or more candidate relationship entities that each of which is different from this entity include based on text fragment: determine candidate relationship entity based on each candidate relationship entity being associated with the syntactic property being mapped to this relation。
In some implementations, at least one relationship entity in candidate relationship entity is selected to include: to select this relationship entity based on the counting including the text fragments identified quoted to this relationship entity。
In some implementations, at least one relationship entity of candidate relationship entity is selected to include: the counting based on the Search Results resource including comprising the text fragments identified quoted to this relationship entity selects this relationship entity。
In some implementations, at least one relationship entity of candidate relationship entity is selected to include: based on this relationship entity of metric sebection being associated with the Search Results resource including comprising the text fragments identified quoted to this relationship entity。
Other realization can include the computer-readable recording medium of non-transitory, the instruction that this computer-readable recording medium storage can be run by the processor method to perform all one or more methods as described above etc。Another realizes can including comprising memorizer and one or more operable to perform to be stored in this memorizer the system of the processor of instruction, with the method performing all one or more methods as described above etc。
It should be understood that all combinations of aforementioned theory and the other theory being described in detail in this article are considered the part of subject matter disclosed herein。Such as, all combinations occurring in the last declared theme of the disclosure are considered the part of presently disclosed subject matter。
Accompanying drawing explanation
Fig. 1 is shown in which may determine that the example context of the answer to query inquiry。
Fig. 2 illustrates and automatically generates query inquiry to identify loss information, checking existing information and/or to update existing information in structured database；One or more answer is determined for this query inquiry；And utilize these answers to revise the example of this structural depository。
Fig. 3 A illustrates the example physical of structured database and the example relationship of this entity in structured database。
Fig. 3 B illustrates the example query inquiry that the example physical based on Fig. 3 A and example relationship based on Fig. 3 A generate, and this example relationship lacks and the associating of another entity。
Fig. 3 C illustrates the sample text fragment that can identify from the Search Results resource that the query in response to Fig. 3 B is inquired about。
Fig. 3 D illustrates for " sister " relation, the example physical at Fig. 3 A and the example based on the association between the entity selected by the sample text fragment of Fig. 3 C。
Fig. 4 shows and formulates query inquiry based on the information in architectural entities data base, determines the one or more answers for this query inquiry and utilize these answers to revise the flow chart of exemplary method of this entity data bak。
Fig. 5 shows one or more answers of the query inquiry determined for submitting to from the computing equipment of user and provides these answers to be presented to the flow chart of the exemplary method of user。
Fig. 6 illustrates for showing answer and the example graph user interface of other Search Results in response to query inquiry。
Fig. 7 illustrates the exemplary architecture of computer system。
Detailed description of the invention
Fig. 1 is shown in which can determine that the example context of the answer for query inquiry。As used herein, query inquiry is the inquiry including one or more instruction, and this instruction indicates this inquiry to be the problem seeking one or more answer。Can use various techniques to identify that inquiry is query inquiry and/or generates query inquiry alternatively。In some implementations, it is possible to identify inquiry based on the one or more n units included in queries and inquire about for query。Such as, can identify that inquiry is for query inquiry based on the prefix of inquiry or other parts and one or more inquiry n unit being matched, this inquiry n first as how " ", " how doing ", " where ", " when ", " what ", " telling me ", " the highest ", " the longest ", " the richest " and/or "？"。Available accurately coupling and/or soft coupling。
In some implementations, grammar property based on one or more inquiries, inquiry can be identified as query inquiry extraly and/or alternatively, and this grammar property is the grammar property of the semantic feature of part of speech, the grammatical structure of inquiry and/or inquiry that is such as associated with one or more words of inquiry etc。Such as, match based on by the prefix of inquiry and other parts and one or more inquiry n unit, and the extra first and one or more extra word of one or more n by inquiry matches inquiry is identified as query inquiry。Such as, if include how inquiry n unit " " and such as " have more ", " more than ", " far more than " etc. " quantity " word, inquiry can be identified as query inquiry。In addition, such as, if including first " what " and " place " word of inquiry n (such as, " city ", " county "), " personage " word (such as " performer ", " politician ") and/or time word (such as " time ", " date ", " year "), inquiry can be identified as query inquiry。In some implementations, query inquiry can be identified as extraly and/or alternatively by inquiry based on user interface, inquiry (such as, be used only for that query is inquired about or be likely to some interfaces with submitted query inquiry) is submitted to via this user interface。In some implementations, query inquiry can be identified as extraly and/or alternatively by speech polling based on tonal variations or other characteristic of being associated with speech polling。
In some implementations, when determining whether inquiry is query inquiry, one or more rule-based modes can realize one or more considerations above and/or other considers。In some implementations, grader or other machine learning system can be trained to determine whether inquiry is query inquiry based on one or more above considerations and/or other consideration。
The example context of Fig. 1 includes search system 110, client device 106, answer system 120, interpreter 130, web resource data base 156 and entity data bak 152。Other assembly of answer system 120 and/or example context can such as to realize by one or more computers of one or more network services。Answer system 120 is the example system that system described herein, assembly and technology can be implemented and/or system described herein, assembly and technology can be engaged wherein。In some implementations, one or more assemblies of answer system 120, search system 110 and/or interpreter 130 can be combined into individual system。
User can be mutual with search system 110 and/or answer system 120 via client device 106。When user may operate multiple computing equipment, for the sake of brevity, the example described in the disclosure is absorbed in user operation client device 106。And, when multiple users be likely to via multiple client devices and search system 110 and/or answer system 120 mutual time, for the sake of brevity, the example that the disclosure describes is absorbed in the client device 106 of unique user operation。Client device 106 can be coupled to search system 110 by one or more networks 101, and network 101 is the network of such as LAN (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) (such as the Internet)。Client device 106 can be such as Desktop computing device, laptop computing device, tablet computing device, mobile phone computing equipment, the cart-mounted computing device (such as Vehicular communication system, vehicle entertainment system, onboard navigation system) of user or include the wearable device (such as, have user's wrist-watch of computing equipment, have user's glasses of computing equipment) of user of computing equipment。Extra and/or alternative client device can be provided that。This client device 106 typically comprises the submission by web help search inquiry and one or more application of transmission and reception data。Such as, this client device 106 can perform one or more application, and such as browser or independent search are applied, and this application allows user to formulate and submit to inquire about to search system 110 and receive the answer in response to this inquiry and/or other Search Results。
Usually, search system 110 receives search inquiry and in response to those search inquiry return informations。As described in detail herein, search system 110 can receive search inquiry 104 from client device 106 in some implementations, and returns Search Results 108 in response to search inquiry 104 to client device 106。In some of these realizations, search inquiry 104 can also be provided to answer system 120 and answer system 120 may determine that the one or more answers in response to search inquiry 104。Such as, in some implementations, search system 110 may determine that if inquiring about 104 is query inquiry (such as, based on one or more considerations described above), and if it were to be so, provides inquiry 104 to answer system 120。The one or more answers determined by answer system 120 can be provided to search system 110 to list Search Results 108 in。Such as, Search Results 108 can include only one or multiple answer, or can include answer and other Search Results in response to search inquiry 104。
As being described in detail equally in this article, search system 110 can receive the inquiry 105 generated from answer system 120 in some implementations, and returns the fragment 115 in response to the one or more Search Results resources inquired about to answer system 120。In some implementations, search system 110 can provide the instruction of the one or more Search Results resources in response to the inquiry 105 generated as an alternative, and answer system 120 can pass through to access web resource data base 156 and/or other data base and oneself identify fragment from those Search Results resources。As described in this article, it is possible to utilized various types of syntactic information preferably to annotate fragment 115 by interpreter 130 before being provided to answer system 120。The more descriptions of interpreter 130 are provided below。
Each search inquiry 104 is the request to information。Search inquiry 104 can with such as textual form and/or other form, such as example, audio form and/or pictorial form。Other computer equipment can submit to search inquiry to arrive search system 110, such as other client device and/or one or more server, and this server achieves the service for the website cooperated with the supplier of search system 110。But, in order to briefly, in particular example described in the context of client 106。
Search system 110 includes index engine 114 and rank engine 112。Index engine 114 preserves the web resource index 154 used by search system 110。Index engine 114 processes web resource (generally being represented) by web resource data base 156, and indexes at web resource and such as utilize conventional and/or other index technology to update index entry 154 in 154。Such as index engine 114 can crawl WWW and crawl access index resource by this。And, for instance index engine 114 can receive the information relevant to one or more resources from one or more sources of the webmaster of these resources such as controlled etc, and based on these resources of these information indexs。As used herein, resource is the addressable document in any the Internet, and it is associated with resource identifier, such as, but it is not limited to URL (" URL "), and it includes content so that can represent document via application executable on client device 106。Resource includes webpage, word processing file, portable document format (" PDF "), only names a few。Each resource can include content such as such as: text, image, video, sound, embedded information (such as metamessage and/or hyperlink)；And/or embedded instruction (such as, the ECMA script of such as JavaScript etc realizes)。
Rank engine 112 uses web resource index 154 identification in response to the resource of search inquiry, for instance, use routine and/or out of Memory retrieval technique。Rank engine 112 is identify as the Resource Calculation score value that search inquiry is responded, for instance, use one or more ranking signal。
In some implementations, the ranking signal used by rank engine 112 can include the information about search inquiry 104 itself such as, the classification (type (as moved equipment, on knee, desktop type) of the language such as, submit the geographical position inquired about to, submitting the user inquired about to and/or the client device 106 submitting to inquiry to use) of the user of word, the identifier of the user of submission inquiry and/or the submission inquiry such as inquired about。Such as, ranking signal can include the information of the word about search inquiry, such as such as query terms occurs in the title of the anchor point in resource, position in main body and text, word in resource be how to use (such as, in title in resource, in link in main body in resource or in resource), term frequencies (namely occurs in the total quantity divided by the word in resource of the number of times in the corpus of resource with the word of the language identical with inquiry) and/or resource frequency (namely comprising the resource of the query terms quantity in the corpus of the resource total quantity divided by the resource in corpus)。
And, such as, the ranking signal used by rank engine 112 can include the information about resource extraly and/or alternatively, the such as tolerance of the popularity of the tolerance of such as stock number, resource, the URL of resource, resource geographical position in trust, search system 110 when first time to index 154 increase resources, the language of resource, resource titles length and/or for pointing to the length of the text of the source anchor point of the link of resource。
Rank engine 112 uses score value to resource response ranking。Search system 110 can use and be generated all or part Search Results 108 and/or fragment 115 by the resource response of rank engine 112 ranking。Such as, the title of each resource can be included based on the Search Results 108 of resource response, to the summary of the link of each resource and/or the content from each resource in response to search inquiry 104。Such as, the summary of content can include specific " fragment " or the part of the resource in response to search inquiry 104。
And, for instance, for each in one or more resource responses, fragment 115 can include the one or more fragments coming from the title of resource, main body or other parts。In some implementations, the one or more fragments provided for resource can include being typically the fragment that resource provides and/or the fragment of text including except the fragment that typical case provides in retrieval result 108。Such as, in some implementations, the text typically provided in Search Results and other text before or after this text can be included for this resource for the fragment of resource。Various technology can be utilized to be defined as the fragment that resource provides。Such as, in some implementations, for given search inquiry, based on the relation between this fragment and given search inquiry (such as, occur in the same or like word in this fragment and search inquiry), fragment position in resource, format flags and/or be applied to other labelling and/or the other factors of fragment, search system 110 may determine that the fragment of resource。
In some implementations, search system 110 fragment of the subset only from the Search Results in response to search inquiry can be included for the fragment 115 that particular search query provides。Such as, as described in this article, rank engine 112 uses one or more ranking signal to be identified as the Resource Calculation score value in response to search inquiry, and can select the subset of Search Results resource based on this score value。Such as, those Search Results resources with at least one threshold scores can be included in this subset。And, for instance, X (such as 2,5,10) the individual Search Results resource with best score value can be included in the subsets。And, for instance, the Search Results resource in the highest X Search Results resource (as determined based on score value) and there is the Search Results resource of at least one threshold scores can being included in the subsets。
There is provided in the realization of the answer determined by answer system 120 in Search Results 108 in search system 110, Search Results 108 can only include the information relevant with answer, maybe can include the answer combined with one or more " tradition " Search Results based on the resource response identified by rank engine 112。Such as, the Search Results that figure 6 illustrates is provided in response to search inquiry 604, and the information 608 that this Search Results includes with Search Results 610,612,614 combines answer is relevant, Search Results 610,612,614 is based on the resource response to search inquiry 604。Referring again to Fig. 1, Search Results 108 is sent to client device 106 with the form that can be presented to user。Such as, Search Results 108 can as the search result web page by the browser display performed on client device 106 and/or convey to the Search Results of user via audio frequency transmitted as one or more。In some implementations, search system 110 significantly more furnishes an answer in Search Results 108 and/or furnishes an answer with the alternate manner distinguished with other Search Results 108。Such as, when Search Results 108 as search result web page in current, as shown in FIG. 6, answer can significantly more be shown and/or can be placed away from other Search Results 108。
Generally, answer system 120 determines the answer to query inquiry。In some implementations, answer system 120 determines the answer to the query inquiry submitted to by user via the computing equipment of user。Such as, inquiry 104 can be provided to answer system 120 (via client device 106 directly and/or via search system 110), and answer system 120 may determine that the answer to inquiry 104。Determined answer can be provided as all or part of Search Results 108 in response to inquiry 104。Search Results 108 including answer can be supplied directly to client device 106 by answer system 120, and/or is supplied to search system 110 to include being supplied in the Search Results of client device 106 by search system 110 by answer system 120。
In some implementations, answer system 120: automatically formulate query inquiry to identify the information lost, verify existing information and/or update existing information in entity data bak 152；One or more answer is determined in query inquiry；And use this answer amendment entity data bak 152。In realizing as some, determined answer may identify which that special entity and this amendment can be the amendments being associated with special entity。Such as, answer system 120 can determine that answer, and object entity and the answer of the loss in the ternary (theme, relation, object) of this answer identification entity data bak 152 can be used to fill the object entity of loss in the ternary of entity data bak 152。In some implementations, answer system 120 can utilize determined answer suggestion to the amendment of entity data bak 152 and can modify only on the basis that user agrees to。In some implementations, answer system 120 can based on determined answer and based on one or more extra signals determine amendment entity data bak 152。
Generally, entity data bak 152 can be structured database, and for each in multiple entities, it defines these entities one or more and this entity attributes and/or the relation with other related entities。Such as, the entity being associated with US President George Washington can have: " being born in " relation of the entity being associated with Virginia；" birthday " relation on February 22nd, 1732 being associated with attribute；" occupation " relation of the entity being associated with US President etc.。In some implementations, entity is the title delivered a speech。In some implementations, entity is personage, place, theory and/or can be called for short and the things of (such as based on context) distinguishable from each other by another name (such as word or phrase)。Such as, multiple entity can be inferred in the word " Bush (bush) " on webpage, the fertile gram president Bush of such as George's Herbert, George Wo Ke president Bush, bushes and Bush rock band。And, for instance, word " STING " also refers to singer or composer Gordon horse and repaiies Thomas's Sumner or wrestler's Steve's bowden。In some examples of this specification, it is possible to by unique entity identifier reference entity。In some instances, it is possible to by other attribute reference entity of one or more another names and/or entity。
As it has been described above, answer system 120 determines the answer to query inquiry。In various implementations, answer system 120 can include query query engine 122, candidate answers engine 124 and/or answer selection engine 126。In some implementations, all or part aspect of engine 122,124 and/126 can be omitted。In some implementations, all or part aspect of engine 122,124 and/126 can be combined。In some implementations, all or part aspect of engine 122,124 and/126 can be implemented as the assembly being separated with answer system 120。
Generally, query query engine 122 generates query inquiry to provide to search system 110。Such as, as shown in Figure 1, query query engine 122 can generate the inquiry 105 of the generation being supplied to search system 110 to receive fragment 115 from the one or more Search Results resources in response to the inquiry 105 generated。Determine in some realizations of answer of the inquiry submitted to by client device 106 at answer system, it is convenient to omit query query engine 122 (such as, submitted inquiry itself is used as query inquiry)。Determine that at answer system in some other realizations of answer of the inquiry submitted to by client device 106, query query engine 122 can optionally generate one or more revisions of the inquiry submitted to by client device 106。These one or more revisions can be submitted to search system 110 to receive the fragment 115 in response to revision as supplement (or replacement) of submitted inquiry。Such as, query query engine 122 can revise this inquiry with expanding query, simplify inquiry, by the synonym replacement etc. with those words of one or more words。Such as, inquiry 104 can be " the sister of Bart Simpson？", and query query engine 122 can generate one or more revision, and such as " who is the sister of Bart Simpson？"。And, such as inquiry 104 can be " peak in Louisville city, the Kentucky State ", and query query engine 122 can generate one or more revision, such as the peak of Louisville city, the Kentucky State " what be ", " peak-peak in Louisville city, the Kentucky State " and/or " there is the highest elevator in what place in Louisville city, the Kentucky State "。
In some implementations, query query engine 122 generates query inquiry to identify the information of loss in entity data bak 152, verify existing information and/or update existing information。For example, it is possible to the information based on " loss " that identify in entity data bak 152 formulates query inquiry。For example, it is possible to the loss element based on the ternary (theme, relation, object) of entity data bak 152 formulates query inquiry。Such as, the theme of ternary can be known entity, relation can be " with ... marry " and object can be lose element。Based on this ternary, it is possible to formulate the query inquiry of " whom [another name of entity] marry with "。In various implementations, it may be preferred to ground generates multiple queries inquiry。Such as, it is possible to generate the spouse of [another name of entity] " who be ", the wife of [entity] " who be ", the husband of [entity] " who be " etc.。As described below, engine 124 and 126 can utilize and originate from determining in response to the word fragment of Search Results resource of the inquiry 105 generated the answer to query inquiry, and answer can be used in definition, in entity data bak 152, in the loss element of ternary。
As another example, assuming that cartoon figure's " interior moral Flanders " is known in entity data bak 152, and entity data bak 152 defines " child " relation of the entity for being associated of " interior moral Flanders " with cartoon figure's " Luo De Flanders " and " tod Flanders "。Query query engine 122 can generate one or more query inquiry based on the theme (interior moral Flanders) of ternary and relation (child), such as inquiry: the child of interior moral Flanders " who be "。As described below, engine 124 and 126 can utilize source to determine the answer to query inquiry from the word fragment of Search Results resource in response to the query inquiry generated, and use answer checking and/or increase in entity data bak 152 for the confidence level of " child " relation of " interior moral Flanders "。
Generally, candidate answers engine 124 based on from response to query inquire about (or, if being generated multiple query inquiry by query query engine 122, then inquire about in response to one or more queries) the fragment of one or more Search Results resources determine the candidate answers for query inquiry。As above in connection with described in search system 110, it is possible to based on the query query execution search provided by client device 106 and/or answer system 120。Fragment 115 from the one or more Search Results resources in response to inquiry can be supplied to answer system 120 by search system 110 further。In some implementations, search system 110 can provide the instruction of response Search Results resource to answer system 120, and answer system 120 can identify fragment from resource。
In some implementations, the fragment of resource can include based on resource is present the fragment that Search Results is generally selected。In some implementations, fragment can include extra and/or alternative text fragments (such as, longer than those text fragments being generally selected for presenting Search Results fragment)。In some implementations, can selecting fragment from the subset of Search Results resource, the example of Search Results resource is as having top ranked X resource for query inquiry, query inquiry being had to the resource of at least one threshold scores and/or based on other tolerance (overall popularity metric such as resource) relevant with resource。
Candidate answers engine 124 can utilize various technology to determine the candidate answers for inquiry based on the fragment identified。Such as, fragment 115 can be annotated to form the fragment 116 annotated with syntactic information by interpreter 130, and candidate answers engine 124 can determine one or more candidate answers based on the annotation of the fragment 116 annotated。
Interpreter 130 can be configured in one or more text fragments of resource identify and annotate various types of syntactic information。Such as, interpreter 130 can include a part for part-of-speech tagging device, and this part-of-speech tagging device is configured in one or more fragments to annotate word with their grammatical roles。Such as, the part of part-of-speech tagging device can with each word of the portion markings of its part of speech, the example of part of speech such as " noun ", " verb ", " conjunction ", " pronoun " etc.。And, for instance, in some implementations, interpreter 130 can include dependency resolver extraly and/or alternatively, and this dependency resolver is configured to determine that the syntactic relation between the word in one or more fragments。Such as, dependency resolver may determine which word modifies (such as, resolver tree) such as other word of sentence, theme and verbs, and may be made that these dependent annotations。
And, for instance, in some implementations, interpreter 130 can include entity annotator extraly and/or alternatively, and this entity annotator is configured in one or more fragments to annotate entity reference, such as quoting people, tissue, place etc.。Such as, entity annotator can annotate all references to the given people in the fragment of one or more resources。Entity annotator can high granular level (such as, to enable the mark to all references of entity type such as people) and/or low granular level (as to enable special entity, such as particular person, the mark of all references) annotation quoting entity。Entity annotator can rely on the content resolution special entity of resource and/or can communicate with decomposing special entity with entity data bak 152 or other entity data bak alternatively。And, for instance, in some implementations, interpreter 130 can include jointly quoting decomposer extraly and/or alternatively, and this is jointly quoted decomposer and is configured to based on the packet of one or more context cues or " cluster " quoting identical entity。As in one or more fragments, " Dan Nilisitangelian ", " blocking beautiful prosperous " and " she " can be grouped together based on quoting identical entity。In some implementations, jointly quoting decomposer can utilize the data (such as metadata or entity data bak 152) outside text fragments to quoting cluster。
In some implementations, the annotation of responsible other assemblies one or more from interpreter 130 of one or more assemblies of interpreter 130。Such as, in some implementations, so-called entity annotator may rely on comfortable to special entity annotation all of relate in content jointly quote decomposer and/or the annotation of dependency resolver。And, for instance in some implementations, jointly quote decomposer and may rely on the annotation of the dependency resolver during the comfortable cluster to identical entity is quoted。
As the example of candidate answers engine 124 utilizing one or more annotation to determine candidate answers, query inquiry can seek certain types of information and only those words meeting this information type can be identified as candidate answers。Such as, " where " the query inquiry for including, only those words being noted as " place " can be identified as candidate answers。And, for instance, the query for including " who " is inquired about, and only has those words being noted as " people " and is identified。And, for instance, for the query inquiry formulated based on ternary relation " being born in ", candidate answers engine 124 can only identify the word being noted as " date "。
As another example, only those words (such as, position and/or in analytic tree) that other word of inquiry has specific syntactic relation in fragment are identified as candidate answers by candidate answers engine 124。Such as, the word occurred in the identical sentence of fragment as just the another name of the entity of name in query inquiry can be identified as candidate answers。Such as, for the inquiry of the son of interior moral Flanders " who be ", only those words occurred in the sentence identical with the fragment of " interior moral Flanders " can be identified as candidate answers。And, for instance, specific query is inquired about, only the word of " object " (such as, indicated by analytic tree) of the sentence of those fragments can be identified as candidate answers。It should be noted that candidate answers engine 124 can be optionally many queries inquiry and identify multiple candidate answers from individual chip。Such as, multiple candidate answers can be returned from individual chip with the inquiry of the form of the child of [another name] " who be "。
In some implementations, candidate answers engine 124 can be the system being trained to determine candidate answers。Such as, machine learning techniques training candidate answers engine 124 can be utilized based on the data of labelling。Such as, candidate answers engine 124 can be trained to receive the one or more features relevant with the query inquiry that fragment and/or fragment response to which as input, and provides one or more candidate answers as output。
Generally, answer selects engine 126 to select the one or more candidate answers determined by candidate answers engine 124。Such as, answer selects engine 126 can select one or more candidate answers based on the score value relevant with candidate answers。Such as, the answer that only that answer with " best " score value can be chosen and/or only those have the score value meeting threshold value can be chosen。The score value of candidate answers is usually the instruction that candidate answers is the confidence level of correct option。Candidate answers engine 124 and/or answer select engine 126 that various technology can be utilized to determine score value。Such as, the score value for candidate answers can based on heuristic, and this heuristic is accordingly based on the fragment of the text that candidate answers is determined from which。And, such as, score value for candidate answers can based on the counting of the counting of the text fragments identified and/or resource, wherein this text fragments identified includes quoting candidate answers, this resource includes comprising the text fragments (score value of the inclusion acquisition that the score value ratio that such as, can obtain is only from the fragment of 5 resources is more indicative to having as correct option) quoted to candidate answers from the inclusion in the fragment of 10 resources。And, for instance, for candidate answers score value can based on include there are one or more tolerance that the Search Results resource of the text fragments identified that candidate answers is quoted is associated。For Search Results resource tolerance can based on the overall popularity metric (can independent of inquiry) of such as resource, for inquiry resource ranking (such as, determined by rank engine 112) and/or resource date (such as, being likely in some cases more welcome the resource closer to present) of being created and/or revising。
And, for instance, in the system (as described above with respect to candidate answers engine 124) being trained to determine candidate answers, system can be trained to determine the score value of instruction confidence level in candidate answers further。Such as, system can be trained to receive and fragment and/or fragment are the relevant one or more features of the query inquiry of the response to it as input, and provides one or more candidate answers and for the score value of candidate answers as output。
It should be noted that and inquire about for some queries, answer selects engine 126 can select multiple answer (such as, who is the child of X), and for other only a single answer selected (as where being born in)。Therefore, in some implementations, answer selects engine 126 can determine that a number of answer is to be chosen as the answer to query inquiry based on query inquiry。Such as, for formulating query inquiry (such as, to determine the lost objects in the ternary with " birth " relation) in the place to determine people's birth, answer selects engine 126 to only select that single answer。And it should be noted that and some queries are inquired about, answer selects engine 126 can not select any answer。Such as, engine 126 is selected can not select any answer based on all the score value of threshold value can not be met for all of candidate answers。
Determining in the realization of answer based on the query inquiry received from client device 106, answer system 120 can provide to client device 106 (alternatively via search system 110) and present for the user to client device 106 for inquiring about determined answer。For example, it is possible to audio frequency provide a user with answer and/or present to user in graphical user interface。The extra information of the resource (such as, including one or more resources of the fragment determining answer from which) being based on about answer and/or answer can also be optionally provided。Furthermore, it is possible to replace answer alternatively in text fragments to respond query inquiry。Such as, answer can be combined so that presenting of answer has more " dialogism " with the fragment of one or more queries inquiry。An example as the extraneous information that can include in answer, Fig. 6 illustrates the answer (Nan Baishan) including (" height above sea level 902 feet "), can be determined that extra relevant information based on fragment, query inquiry 604 and/or this answer of other factors。Fig. 6 also show the answer (Nan Baishan) of the fragment (" being the peak in Louisville city, the Kentucky State ") including query inquiry so that the program of answer has more dialogism。
In the realization of the answer determined on the basis of the query inquiry that non-existent information is formulated in based on entity data bak 152, answer can be defined as in entity data bak 152 non-existent information。Such as, query inquiry can be formulated based on the absent element of ternary (theme, relation, object)。Such as, the theme of ternary can be known entity, and relation can be " marriage ", and object can be missing from element。Known entities can be defined with associating of the answer for " marriage " relation in entity data bak 152。
As being described in detail below with reference to Fig. 2, in some implementations, answer can be the answer decomposed for special entity。Such as, in some implementations, interpreter 130 annotation provided can be used as answer for special entity decomposition word and the entity decomposed。And, for instance, answer is probably infers the fuzzy word of multiple entities of definition in entity data bak 152, or answer may relate to the not yet entity of definition in entity data bak 152。In realizing as some, answer system 120 can utilize various technology eliminate the ambiguity to answer and/or determine whether answer quotes the entity of the previous definition being viewed as comprising in entity data bak。Such as, being fuzzy in answer and infer in the situation of multiple entity, query query engine 122 can generate extra inquiry so that special entity is decomposed answer based on answer。And, such as, being in entity data bak 152 in the situation of undefined entity in answer, query query engine 122 can generate the extra inquiry additional relationships (to other known entities and/or the attribute to answer) to determine whether can determine that answer based on answer。If it is determined that the threshold quantity of at least one additional relationships and/or determine those additional relationships with at least one confidence threshold value rank, answer can be automatically included as the novel entities in entity data bak 152 and/or provide (such as automatically for the potential consideration for including in entity data bak 152, include only in during by one or more individual review, and/or include after being processed further by the computing system of one or more separation)。
Each of the assembly of the example context of Fig. 1 can include the memorizer for storing data and software application, for accessing data and performing the processor of application and be easy to the assembly of internetwork communication。In some implementations, these assemblies can include the hardware that is shared in one or more characteristics of the example computer system shown in Fig. 7。The operation performed by one or more assemblies of example context can be distributed across multiple computer systems alternatively。Such as, answer system 120 step performed can perform via one or more computer programs, and this computer program operates in by the one or more servers in network one or more places coupled to each other。In this manual, word " data base " will be widely used in any set referring to data。The data of data base need not be structured in any particular manner or not be structured completely, and it can be stored in the storage device in one or more place。It is therefoie, for example, data base can include multiple set of data, each can be organized differently or access。
Fig. 2 illustrates an example, in this example, automatically formulates query inquiry to identify loss information, checking existing information and/or to update the existing information in architectural entities data base 152；One or more answer is determined for query inquiry；And use answer amendment entity data bak 152。In order to contribute to explaining the example of Fig. 2, it will with reference to Fig. 3 A-3D。
Query query engine 122 formulates query inquiry based on the information in entity data bak 152。For example, it is possible to the loss element based on the ternary (theme, relation, object) in entity data bak 152 formulates query inquiry。Such as, Fig. 3 A schematically shows the Examples section 152A of entity data bak 152。Part 152A includes the entity being associated with cartoon figure " Bart Simpson ", and show extra attribute and with the entity being associated with " Bart Simpson " for various relations (relation with reference to indicated by Fig. 3 A underscore)。Such as, the entity being associated with " Bart Simpson " has: " father and mother " relation to the entity being associated with cartoon figure Homer Simpson and Mai Qi Simpson；" sex " relation to the entity being associated with " man "；" occupation " relation to the entity being associated with " student "；And arrive " another name " relation with " Bart ", " Bart Simpson ", the attribute of " Ba Suoluomiao ball ball Simpson "。Specifically, the entity being associated with " Bart Simpson " not any association to another entity for " sister " and " brother " relation。Query query engine 122 based on ternary (Bart Simpson, sister,？) loss element can generate query inquiry, such as " who is the sister of Bart Simpson in inquiry？" (as shown in the inquiry 105A that generates in figure 3b) and/or " who is the sisters of Bart Simpson？"。Such as, based on the another name being associated with " Bart Simpson " included in queries as word (such as, indicated by the another name relation of Fig. 3 A) and the word that includes in queries being associated with " sister " relation as word, it is possible to generate inquiry。
Query is provided to inquire about to search system 110。As it has been described above, search system 110 identifies the one or more Search Results resources in response to inquiry。Search system 110 indexes 154 via web resource further and/or uses web resource data base 156 to identify the fragment of one or more Search Results resource。For example, it is possible to identify the fragment 115A of Fig. 3 C and extra fragment (indicated by vertically point in fig. 3 c)。
Fragment is provided to interpreter 130。As it has been described above, interpreter 130 can be configured to the various types of syntactic informations identifying and annotating in one or more text fragments of resource。Interpreter 130 can provide, to candidate answers engine 124, the fragment annotated。
Candidate answers engine 124 utilizes one or more technology to determine candidate answers based on fragment。Such as, for the inquiry 105A generated of Fig. 3 B, candidate answers engine 124 may determine that and only should identify the word (such as, based on " who " and/or " sister " that occur in inquiring about in query) being noted as " people "。And, for instance, candidate answers engine 124 may determine that the word in the threshold distance of the another name only occurring in " Bart Simpson " and/or this alias has the word of analytic tree relation can be identified as candidate answers。Based on these and/or itself it is determined that, candidate answers engine 124 may identify which that " Mai Qi " and " Li Sa " is as candidate answers。In some implementations, candidate answers can be broken down into special entity。Such as, candidate answers can be broken down into the entity being associated with cartoon figure " wheat fine jade Simpson " and " beautiful Sa Simpson " based on the annotation provided by interpreter 130。
Selecting engine 126 to provide candidate answers to answer, answer selects engine 126 to select the one or more candidate answers determined by candidate answers engine 124。Such as, answer selects engine 126 can select both " Mai Qi " and " Li Sa " based on the score value being associated with those candidate answers。Such as, those two answers all have the score value meeting threshold value。Various technology can be utilized to determine score value。Such as, the score value of candidate answers can based on heuristic, include the counting of the identified text fragments quoted to candidate answers and/or include comprising the counting of the resource of the text fragments quoted to candidate answers。And, for instance, the score value for candidate answers can based on the one or more tolerance being associated with Search Results resource, and what Search Results resource included identifying has the text fragments quoted to candidate answers。
Answer selects engine 126 can utilize the loss information in selected answer definition entity data bak 152。Such as, as shown in the ternary in Fig. 3 D, associating and can be defined within entity data bak 152 for " sister " relation between the entity being associated with " Bart Simpson " and the entity being associated with " wheat fine jade Simpson " and " beautiful Sa Simpson "。In some implementations, answer can be decomposed to special entity。Such as, based on the annotation provided by interpreter 130, answer can be decomposed to the entity being associated with cartoon figure " wheat fine jade Simpson " and " beautiful Sa Simpson "。
In some implementations, it is possible to perform the answer to the information of loss process further to decompose answer to special entity and/or determine whether for the potential inclusions in entity data bak 152 it would be desirable to provide the answer relevant with entity。Such as, answer is probably the fuzzy words of the multiple entities inferring definition in entity data bak 152, or answer may relate to still undefined entity in entity data bak 152。In realizing as some, answer selects engine 126 that various technology can be utilized to eliminate answer ambiguity and/or determine whether answer quotes the entity of the previously undefined inclusions should being looked at as in entity data bak。Such as, extra inquiry can be generated to decompose answer (as in fig. 2 shown in the arrow extended between answer selection engine 126 and query query engine 122) to special entity based on answer。
As an example, supposing as above cartoon figure " Bart Simpson " is the known entities in entity data bak 152, but data base does not define the object for relation " sister "。One or more query inquiry can be formulated based on theme (Bart Simpson) and relation (sister)。Text fragments from the Search Results inquired about in response to query can be identified and utilize the answer determined query inquiry。Such as, multiple text fragments may indicate that the sister of Bart Simpson is " beautiful Sa Simpson " and " wheat fine jade Simpson "。
It is further assumed that " wheat fine jade Simpson " is not associated with the entity of the definition in entity data bak。Query query engine 122 can generate one or more extra query inquiry relation to determine one or more entity based on web resource based on answer (and being based preferably on the theme and/or relation of determining problem thereon)。Such as, extra query can be formulated inquire about to determine " wheat fine jade Simpson " relation to other attribute and/or entity, such as " where the sister Mai Qi Simpson of Bart Simpson is born " (to determine the relation to " birthplace "), " who is Bart Simpson and the father and mother of Mai Qi Simpson " (to determine the relation to " father and mother "), " when the birthday of the sister Mai Qi Simpson of Bart Simpson is " etc.。It should be noted that previous sample query is based on (namely they include " sister of Bart Simpson ") of the theme determining problem thereon and relation。In some implementations, it is necessary to increase, with this, the probability that the Search Results resource in response to inquiry relates to the identical entity of answer。Fragment in response to these inquiries can be selected engine 126 to process to determine the one or more answers for these inquiries by candidate answers engine 124 as above and answer。If these extra query inquiries identify " wheat fine jade Simpson " at least one number of threshold values to the relation of attribute and/or other known entities, and/or identify the relation with at least one confidence threshold value rank, " wheat fine jade Simpson " can be added automatically in entity data bak 152, or increase to entity data bak 152 for potential and be marked。
Similar technology can be utilized to eliminate the ambiguity of the answer relating to multiple entity。For example it is assumed that cartoon figure " wheat fine jade Simpson " is the known entities in entity data bak 152。But, as an example embodiment that having the performer in a real life run after fame with wheat fine jade Simpson, it is also the known entities in entity data bak 152。The appearance of " wheat fine jade Simpson " can be decomposed cartoon figure based on the one or more queries inquiry being formulated to verify the known ternary relating to cartoon figure。Query inquiry can also be optionally based on the theme and/or relation of determining problem thereon。Such as, the ternary relating to cartoon figure in structured database can be (wheat fine jade Simpson, be born in, Springfield), and the ternary relating to the performer in real life can be (wheat fine jade Simpson, be born in, A Erkuiji)。Query inquiry can be generated, such as " wheat fine jade Simpson where, the brother of Bart Simpson, birth "。It is the correct option to query inquiry that fragment from the Search Results of extra query inquiry can be analyzed to determine " Springfield "。Being correct option based on " Springfield ", cartoon figure wheat fine jade Simpson can be selected as suitable entity (owing to Springfield is indicated as the birthplace of cartoon figure wheat fine jade Simpson in entity data bak 152)。
Although it should be noted that a lot of examples herein describe one or more identified candidate answers and one or more selected candidate answers, but the candidate answers and/or selected candidate answers that can't cause being identified being inquired about in some queries。Such as, the entity being associated with " Bart Simpson " in figure 3 a does not have and the associating of another entity for " brother " relation。Query query engine 122 based on ternary (Bart Simpson, brother,？) loss element can generate one or more query inquiry, such as inquiry: " who is the brother of Bart Simpson？"。Owing to cartoon figure Bart Simpson does not have brother's (or only having with the brother of limited circumstantial evidence hint), answer is not had to be chosen for such inquiry。Such as, search system 110 will not provide the fragment based on Search Results resource for such inquiry possibility, wherein Search Results resource does not have at least one threshold scores for this inquiry, according to technique described herein, based on the text fragments provided, can nonrecognition candidate answers, and/or the score value based on all candidate answers is all unsatisfactory for threshold value, it is possible to do not select candidate answers。
Fig. 4 shows the flow chart of exemplary method, and this exemplary method is formulated query inquiry based on the information in architectural entities data base, determines the one or more answers for query inquiry and utilized answer amendment entity data bak。Other realization can be executed in different order step, omits particular step and/or perform different and/or except those steps shown in Fig. 4 extra step。For simplicity, it will one or more system for computer of reference execution process describe the aspect of Fig. 4。System can include one or more engines 122,124 and 126 of such as answer system 120。
In step 400, structured database identifies entity relation being lacked to enough associations。Such as, non-existent information in system identifiable structures data base, data base is entity data bak 152 such as。Such as, the loss element of the ternary (theme, relation, object) of the recognizable entity data bak 152 of system。Such as, the theme of ternary can be known entities, the element that relation can be " marriage " and object can be loss。
In step 405, generate query inquiry based on entity and relation。Such as, system can generate query inquiry, and this query inquiry can be generated as the another name including one or more entity, and is mapped to one or more words of relation。Such as, as sporocarp is associated with cartoon figure " Bart Simpson ", can be " Bart " and/or " Bart Simpson " including the another name in inquiring about in query。And, for instance, if relation is " sister ", word can be " elder sister ", " younger sister " and/or " who " (because relation is look for being the object as " people ", who is likely to be mapped to sisterhood)。
In step 410, the text fragments in response to the search result document of query inquiry can be identified。For example, it is possible to search for based on query query execution, and may identify which the fragment from the one or more Search Results resources in response to inquiry。In some implementations, the search system searched for based on query query execution fragment is provided。In some implementations, search system can provide instruction and the recognizable fragment from response Search Results resource of fragment of response Search Results resource。
In step 415, determine candidate answers based on text fragments。System can utilize various technology to determine the candidate answers for inquiry based on the fragment identified。Such as, interpreter 130 can annotate fragment to form annotated fragment with syntactic information, and system can determine one or more candidate answers based on the annotation of annotated fragment。As utilizing one or more annotation to determine the example of the system of candidate answers, query inquiry can seek certain types of information and only those words meeting this information type be identified as candidate answers。Such as, " where " the query inquiry for including, only those words being noted as " place " are identified as candidate answers。And, for instance, for the query inquiry formulated based on ternary relation " being born in ", system can only identify the word that those annotations are " date "。
In step 420, select at least one candidate answers。Such as, one or more candidate answers can be selected based on the point system being associated with candidate answers。Various technology can be utilized to determine score value。Such as, heuristic can be based on for the score value of candidate answers entity, include the counting of the text fragments identified quoted to candidate answers and/or include comprising the counting of the resource of the text fragments identified that candidate answers is quoted。And, for instance, the score value for candidate answers can based on one or more tolerance being associated with Search Results resource, and this Search Results resource includes having the text fragments identified quoted to candidate answers。
In step 425, for contextual definition associating between entity and the relationship entity being associated with candidate answers。Such as, in the situation of the answer determined based on the query inquiry to formulate based on the information not appeared in entity data bak 152, the relationship entity being associated with answer can be defined as the information not occurred in entity data bak 152。Such as, based on ternary (theme, relation, object) do not occur element can formulate query inquiry。Such as, the theme of ternary can be known entities, and relation can be " marriage " and object can be element do not occur。The association of the known entities of relationship entity can be defined in entity data bak 152, and this relationship entity is associated with the answer selected for " marriage " relation。
As described herein, in some implementations, selected answer can be decomposed to the one of special entity。Such as, in some implementations, interpreter 130 word can be decomposed to special entity by the annotation provided, and the entity decomposed is used as relationship entity。In some implementations, answer can be the fuzzy word of the multiple entities inferring definition in entity data bak 152, or answer may relate to the not yet entity of definition in entity data bak。In realizing as some, system can utilize various technology eliminate the ambiguity of the answer for relationship entity and/or determine whether answer quotes the previous undefined entity being considered as including in entity data bak。
It can be the step of the one or more relations repetition stereogram 4 lacking enough associations。For example, it is possible to repeat, for additional relationships and entity, the defined entity that the step of Fig. 4 includes in entity data bak 152 with extension and/or renewal。In some implementations, it is possible to periodically or other basis performs the step of Fig. 4 and/or other step with extension and/or updates the defined entity relationship including in entity data bak 152。
Fig. 5 is the one or more answers illustrating the query inquiry determined for being submitted to by the computing equipment of user, and the flow chart of the exemplary method furnished an answer to present to user。Other realization can perform step with different order, omits particular step and/or perform different and/or except those steps shown in Fig. 5 extra step。For simplicity, it will one or more system for computer of reference execution process describe the every aspect of Fig. 5。System can include one or more engines 122,124 and 126 of such as answer system 120。
In step 500, receive query inquiry from the computing equipment of user。
In step 505, it is optionally based on the one or more extra query inquiry of query query generation received in step 500。Such as, system can optionally generate the revision of one or more inquiry submitted to by client device 106。Such as, system can be revised and inquire about with expanding query, Compressed text search, replaces one or more words etc. with the synonym of those words。Except query except receiving is inquired about, (or replacing the query inquiry received) can to the search one or more revisions of submission to receive the fragment in response to revision。
In step 510, identify the text fragments in response to query inquiry and/or the search result document of extra query inquiry。Such as, search can be performed based on query inquiry and may identify which the fragment from the one or more Search Results resources in response to inquiry。Step 510 and step 410 (Fig. 4) can include one or more common aspect。
In step 515, determine candidate answers based on text fragments。System can utilize various technology to determine the candidate answers for inquiry based on the fragment identified。For example, it is possible to annotated fragment to form annotated fragment by interpreter 130 with syntactic information, and system determines one or more candidate answers based on the annotation of annotated fragment。Step 515 and step 415 (Fig. 4) can include one or more common aspect。
In step 520, select at least one candidate answers。Such as, system can select one or more candidate answers based on the score value being associated with candidate answers。Various technology can be utilized to determine score value。Such as, for the score value of candidate answers entity can based on heuristic, include the counting of the text fragments identified that candidate answers is quoted and/or the counting including comprising the resource of the text fragments identified that candidate answers is quoted。Step 520 and step 420 (Fig. 4) can include one or more common aspect。
In step 525, in order to present to user, it is provided that selected answer。Such as, selected answer can be provided to the computing equipment and/or the extra computing equipment relevant with user that receive from it query inquiry。Determined answer can be provided to user to inquire about in response to query with visual and/or acoustically presentation mode。As an example, selected answer can as the part of Search Results can be transmitted to client device 106 by the form presented to user。Such as, answer can be provided to search system 110 and be transmitted by the system of searching for 110 as search result web page and/or one or more Search Results, wherein this search result web page be via on client device 106 perform browser display and this Search Results send user to by audio frequency。Search Results can only include an answer (and including the extraneous information about answer alternatively), maybe can include the answer combined with the one or more Search Results based on the response document identified by rank engine 112。Such as, the Search Results shown in Fig. 6 is provided in response to search inquiry 604 and includes the information 608 relevant with the answer being incorporated into the Search Results 610,612,614 based on the resource in response to search inquiry 604。
Fig. 7 is the block diagram of example computer system 710。Computer system 710 typically comprises at least one processor 714 communicated with several external equipments via bus subsystem 712。These external equipments can include storage subsystem 724, user interface input equipment 722, user interface outut device 720 and network interface subsystem 716, for example, this storage subsystem 724 includes memory sub-system 725 and file storage subsystem 726。Input and input equipment allow user and computer system 710 mutual。Network interface subsystem 716 provides the interface to external network and is coupled to the corresponding interface equipment of other computer system。
User interface input equipment 722 can include keyboard, instruction equipment, scanner, be incorporated into the touch screen of display, audio input device and/or other type of input equipment, wherein indicates example such as mouse, trace ball, Trackpad or the drawing board of equipment；The example of audio input device is speech recognition system, mike such as。Generally, the use of word " input equipment " be intended to include likely type to computer system 710 or the equipment and the mode that input information on a communication network。
User interface outut device 720 can include display subsystem, printer, facsimile machine or non-vision display, such as audio output apparatus。Display subsystem can include cathode ray tube (CRT), tablet device, such as liquid crystal display (LCD), projector equipment or for creating some other mechanism of visual image。Display subsystem may be provided for non-vision and shows, such as via audio output apparatus。Generally, the use of word " outut device " be intended to include likely type export information to user or to the equipment of another machine or computer system and mode from computer system 710。
Storage subsystem 724 stores program and the data structure of the function providing all or part module described herein。Such as, storage subsystem 724 can include logic to perform one or more method described herein, such as, for instance the method for Fig. 4 and/or 5。
These software modules generally individually or are performed by processor 714 together with other processor。The memorizer 725 being used in storage subsystem can include several memorizer, and these several memorizeies include for storing the main random access storage device (RAM) 730 of instruction and data program the term of execution and storing the read only memory (ROM) 732 of fixed instruction wherein。File storage subsystem 724 may provide for the persistent form storage of program and data files, and can include hard disk drive, floppy disk together with removable media, CD-ROM drive, optical drive or removable media box。The module of the function realizing specific implementation can be stored in storage subsystem 724 by file storage subsystem 724, or in other machine that can be accessed by processor 714。
Bus subsystem 712 provides the mechanism for allowing the various assemblies of computer system 710 and subsystem to communicate with one another when needing。Although bus subsystem 712 is schematically shown as single bus, the replaceability of bus subsystem realizes adopting multiple bus。
Computer system 710 can be various types of, and it includes work station, server, computing cluster, blade server, server farm or other data handling system any or computing equipment。Due to the character being continually changing of cyber-net, the explanation of the computer system 710 described in Fig. 7 is intended to as just particular example for the purpose illustrating some realizations。The computer system that other configurations a lot of of computer system 710 are likely to compared to describing in Fig. 7 has more or less of assembly。
While characterized as with illustrate multiple realization, may utilize for performing function and/or obtaining other devices various and/or the structure of one or more result described herein and/or advantage, and each of which of these deformation and/or amendment is considered in the scope of realization described herein。More specifically, all of parameter described herein, size, material and configuration are intended that schematically, and the parameter of reality, size, material and/or configuration will depend on specific one application or some application of using instruction。Simply using normal experiment, those skilled in the art will recognize that or can determine multiple equivalents of specific implementation described herein。Accordingly, it is to be understood that only present aforementioned realization by way of example, and in the scope of appended claims book and equivalent thereof, various realization can also be implemented except such as specific description and statement。The realization of the disclosure relates to each single feature described herein, system, goods, material, external member and/or method。If additionally, these features, system, goods, material, external member and/or method are not conflicting, the combination of any two or these features multiple, system, goods, material, external member and/or method is included within the scope of the present disclosure。
Claims (16)
1. a computer implemented method, including:
Entity relation being lacked to enough associations in structured database is determined by one or more system for computer；
By described system and based on a determination that described entity lacks enough associations, generate at least one query inquiry based on described entity and described relation；
The text fragments of the Search Results resource inquired about in response to described query by described system identification；
By described system and based on described text fragments, one or more candidate answers is determined in described query inquiry；
At least one answer in candidate answers described in described Systematic selection；And
Being the association of described contextual definition in described structured database by described system, described association is between described entity and the relationship entity being associated with described answer。
2. method according to claim 1, wherein, described answer is associated with described relationship entity in the one or more annotations being associated with described text fragments。
3. method according to claim 1, farther includes:
Determined that described relationship entity is previously undefined in described structured database by described system；
By described system and based on a determination that described relationship entity is undefined in described structured database, generate at least one extra query inquiry based on described relationship entity and extra relation；
By described system and based on the content of the extra Search Results resource in response to described extra query inquiry, it is determined that at least one extra relationship entity, described extra relationship entity is different from described entity and different with described relationship entity；And
By described system in described structured database for the extra association between described relationship entity and described extra relationship entity of the described extra contextual definition。
4. method according to claim 3, wherein it is determined that at least one extra relationship entity described includes:
Identify the extra text fragments of described extra Search Results resource；
The extra relationship entity of the one or more candidates including described extra relationship entity is determined based on described extra text fragments；And
Described extra relationship entity is selected from the extra relationship entity of described candidate。
5. method according to claim 1, farther includes:
Determined that described relationship entity is previously undefined in described structured database by described system；
By described system and based on a determination that described relationship entity is undefined in described structured database, generate at least one extra inquiry based on described relationship entity；And
By described system and based on the content of the one or more extra Search Results resource in response to described extra inquiry, it is determined that described relationship entity is effective entity；
Wherein, the association between described entity and described relationship entity of the described contextual definition is based on determines that described relationship entity is effective entity and occurs。
6. method according to claim 5, wherein, generates at least one extra inquiry described based on extra relation, and wherein it is determined that described relationship entity is effective entity includes:
Text fragments based on the described extra Search Results resource in response to described inquiry, determining the association between described relationship entity and the relationship entity that at least one is extra, described extra relationship entity is different from described entity and different with described relationship entity。
7. method according to claim 1, farther includes:
By described system for relationship entity described in described extra relation recognition and the extra relation of extra relationship entity that is associated with described relationship entity；
By described system based on described relationship entity, described extra relation and at least one the extra inquiry of described solid generation；And
The generation of relationship entity extra described in the extra Search Results resource in response to described extra inquiry is determined by described system；
Wherein, the generation based on relationship entity extra described in described extra Search Results resource of the association between described entity and described relationship entity is defined。
8. method according to claim 7, wherein, generates described extra inquiry and is based further on described relation。
9. method according to claim 1, wherein, generates described query inquiry based on described entity and described relation and includes:
Based on one or more first words of the another name described inquiry of generation of described entity, and generate one or more second words of described inquiry based on the word being mapped to described relation。
10. method according to claim 1, wherein, identifies the described text fragments of described Search Results resource, including:
Include at least one of the following based on described fragment and identify described fragment: the another name of described entity and the word being associated with the syntactic property being mapped to described relation。
11. method according to claim 1, wherein, identify the described text fragments of described Search Results resource, including:
Submit described query inquiry in response to search system, receive described fragment from described search system。
12. method according to claim 1, wherein, determine that one or more candidate relationship entities that each of which is different from described entity include based on described text fragments:
It is associated with the syntactic property being mapped to described relation based on each in described candidate relationship entity and determines described candidate relationship entity。
13. method according to claim 1, wherein, at least one relationship entity in described candidate relationship entity is selected to include:
Described relationship entity is selected based on the counting including the text fragments identified quoted to described relationship entity。
14. method according to claim 1, wherein, at least one relationship entity in described candidate relationship entity is selected to include:
Counting based on the described Search Results resource including comprising the text fragments identified quoted to described relationship entity selects described relationship entity。
15. method according to claim 1, wherein, at least one relationship entity in described candidate relationship entity is selected to include:
Described relationship entity is selected based on the tolerance being associated with the described Search Results resource including comprising the text fragments identified quoted to described relationship entity。
16. a system, including:
Structured database, the relation between described structured database definition entity；
Memorizer, described memory store instruction；
One or more processors, described processor is operable to perform storage described instruction in which memory；
Wherein, described instruction includes for following instruction:
Relation is determined to the entity lacking enough associations in described structural data；
Based on a determination that described entity lacks enough associations, generate at least one query inquiry based on described entity and described relation；
Identify the text fragments of the Search Results resource inquired about in response to described query；
Based on described text fragments, it is determined that one or more candidate relationship entities, each of which in described candidate relationship entity is different from described entity；
Select at least one relationship entity in described candidate relationship entity；And
It described structured database is the association between described entity and described relationship entity of the described contextual definition。
Applications Claiming Priority (4)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201462076919P | 2014-11-07 | 2014-11-07 | |
US62/076,919 | 2014-11-07 | ||
US14/709,441 | 2015-05-11 | ||
US14/709,441 US20160132501A1 (en) | 2014-11-07 | 2015-05-11 | Determining answers to interrogative queries using web resources |
Publications (1)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105701172A true CN105701172A (en) | 2016-06-22 |
Family
ID=55912352
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201511035359.3A Pending CN105701172A (en) | 2014-11-07 | 2015-11-09 | Determining answers to interrogative queries using web resources |
Country Status (2)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US20160132501A1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN105701172A (en) |
Cited By (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN106919655A (en) * | 2017-01-24 | 2017-07-04 | 网易（杭州）网络有限公司 | A kind of answer provides method and apparatus |
CN109002477A (en) * | 2018-06-19 | 2018-12-14 | 深圳市元征科技股份有限公司 | Information processing method, device, terminal and medium |
CN109783797A (en) * | 2018-12-11 | 2019-05-21 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Abstracting method, device, equipment and the storage medium of semantic relation |
CN110750543A (en) * | 2018-07-05 | 2020-02-04 | 优视科技（中国）有限公司 | Man-machine interaction method, device, system, storage medium and electronic equipment |
Families Citing this family (12)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9807045B2 (en) | 2015-06-10 | 2017-10-31 | Google Inc. | Contextually driven messaging system |
US10963497B1 (en) * | 2016-03-29 | 2021-03-30 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Multi-stage query processing |
US11250841B2 (en) * | 2016-06-10 | 2022-02-15 | Conduent Business Services, Llc | Natural language generation, a hybrid sequence-to-sequence approach |
US10769539B2 (en) * | 2016-08-16 | 2020-09-08 | International Business Machines Corporation | Automatic evaluation of a knowledge canvassing application |
US10339168B2 (en) * | 2016-09-09 | 2019-07-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | System and method for generating full questions from natural language queries |
US10339167B2 (en) * | 2016-09-09 | 2019-07-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | System and method for generating full questions from natural language queries |
US11048702B1 (en) * | 2018-02-07 | 2021-06-29 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Query answering |
US10860799B2 (en) * | 2018-05-29 | 2020-12-08 | Google Llc | Answering entity-seeking queries |
US10909180B2 (en) | 2019-01-11 | 2021-02-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | Dynamic query processing and document retrieval |
US10949613B2 (en) * | 2019-01-11 | 2021-03-16 | International Business Machines Corporation | Dynamic natural language processing |
CN111506623B (en) * | 2020-04-08 | 2024-03-22 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Data expansion method, device, equipment and storage medium |
US20220398271A1 (en) * | 2021-06-15 | 2022-12-15 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Computing system for extracting facts for a knowledge graph |
Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20120158687A1 (en) * | 2010-12-17 | 2012-06-21 | Yahoo! Inc. | Display entity relationship |
CN103124980A (en) * | 2010-09-24 | 2013-05-29 | 国际商业机器公司 | Providing answers to questions including assembling answers from multiple document segments |
US20140006012A1 (en) * | 2012-07-02 | 2014-01-02 | Microsoft Corporation | Learning-Based Processing of Natural Language Questions |
US20140108132A1 (en) * | 2012-10-11 | 2014-04-17 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Preserving electronic advertisements identified during a computing session |
Family Cites Families (11)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CA2669236C (en) * | 2005-11-16 | 2016-05-24 | Evri Inc. | Extending keyword searching to syntactically and semantically annotated data |
US9183511B2 (en) * | 2012-02-24 | 2015-11-10 | Ming Li | System and method for universal translating from natural language questions to structured queries |
US9081814B1 (en) * | 2012-06-01 | 2015-07-14 | Google Inc. | Using an entity database to answer entity-triggering questions |
TWI502381B (en) * | 2013-04-24 | 2015-10-01 | Ind Tech Res Inst | System and method thereof for searching aliases associated with an entity |
US9646260B1 (en) * | 2013-06-24 | 2017-05-09 | Amazon Technologies, Inc. | Using existing relationships in a knowledge base to identify types of knowledge for addition to the knowledge base |
US9235653B2 (en) * | 2013-06-26 | 2016-01-12 | Google Inc. | Discovering entity actions for an entity graph |
US9430523B2 (en) * | 2013-09-06 | 2016-08-30 | Sap Se | Entity-relationship model extensions using annotations |
US20150178392A1 (en) * | 2013-12-20 | 2015-06-25 | Chacha Search, Inc. | Method and system of providing a search tool |
US9886665B2 (en) * | 2014-12-08 | 2018-02-06 | International Business Machines Corporation | Event detection using roles and relationships of entities |
US10606846B2 (en) * | 2015-10-16 | 2020-03-31 | Baidu Usa Llc | Systems and methods for human inspired simple question answering (HISQA) |
US10127274B2 (en) * | 2016-02-08 | 2018-11-13 | Taiger Spain Sl | System and method for querying questions and answers |
-
2015
- 2015-05-11 US US14/709,441 patent/US20160132501A1/en not_active Abandoned
- 2015-11-09 CN CN201511035359.3A patent/CN105701172A/en active Pending
Patent Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN103124980A (en) * | 2010-09-24 | 2013-05-29 | 国际商业机器公司 | Providing answers to questions including assembling answers from multiple document segments |
US20120158687A1 (en) * | 2010-12-17 | 2012-06-21 | Yahoo! Inc. | Display entity relationship |
US20140006012A1 (en) * | 2012-07-02 | 2014-01-02 | Microsoft Corporation | Learning-Based Processing of Natural Language Questions |
US20140108132A1 (en) * | 2012-10-11 | 2014-04-17 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Preserving electronic advertisements identified during a computing session |
Cited By (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN106919655A (en) * | 2017-01-24 | 2017-07-04 | 网易（杭州）网络有限公司 | A kind of answer provides method and apparatus |
CN109002477A (en) * | 2018-06-19 | 2018-12-14 | 深圳市元征科技股份有限公司 | Information processing method, device, terminal and medium |
CN110750543A (en) * | 2018-07-05 | 2020-02-04 | 优视科技（中国）有限公司 | Man-machine interaction method, device, system, storage medium and electronic equipment |
CN109783797A (en) * | 2018-12-11 | 2019-05-21 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Abstracting method, device, equipment and the storage medium of semantic relation |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20160132501A1 (en) | 2016-05-12 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105701172A (en) | Determining answers to interrogative queries using web resources | |
US11294970B1 (en) | Associating an entity with a search query | |
US10521463B2 (en) | Answering questions via a persona-based natural language processing (NLP) system | |
US10713571B2 (en) | Displaying quality of question being asked a question answering system | |
CN107026787B (en) | Method and apparatus for determining non-text reply content included in electronic communication reply | |
US9514098B1 (en) | Iteratively learning coreference embeddings of noun phrases using feature representations that include distributed word representations of the noun phrases | |
US10592571B1 (en) | Query modification based on non-textual resource context | |
US20160224621A1 (en) | Associating A Search Query With An Entity | |
EP2347354B1 (en) | Retrieval using a generalized sentence collocation | |
US8930342B2 (en) | Enabling multidimensional search on non-PC devices | |
US20090249198A1 (en) | Techniques for input recogniton and completion | |
CN101796511B (en) | Identification of semantic relationships within reported speech | |
US11861319B2 (en) | Chatbot conducting a virtual social dialogue | |
US20160224566A1 (en) | Weighting Search Criteria Based on Similarities to an Ingested Corpus in a Question and Answer (QA) System | |
US11250052B1 (en) | Systems and methods for searching quotes of entities using a database | |
US20150317313A1 (en) | Searching locally defined entities | |
US20180276210A1 (en) | Dynamic summary generator | |
US9811592B1 (en) | Query modification based on textual resource context | |
US11481454B2 (en) | Search engine results for low-frequency queries | |
US20160307000A1 (en) | Index-side diacritical canonicalization | |
US20170293683A1 (en) | Method and system for providing contextual information | |
JP2009151541A (en) | Optimum information presentation method in retrieval system |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
WD01 | Invention patent application deemed withdrawn after publication | ||
WD01 | Invention patent application deemed withdrawn after publication |
Application publication date: 20160622 |