CN113170388A - Selecting a wireless network connection - Google Patents
Selecting a wireless network connection Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN113170388A CN113170388A CN201980079882.6A CN201980079882A CN113170388A CN 113170388 A CN113170388 A CN 113170388A CN 201980079882 A CN201980079882 A CN 201980079882A CN 113170388 A CN113170388 A CN 113170388A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- network
- performance data
- connection
- wlan
- wireless
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Pending
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04W—WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
- H04W76/00—Connection management
- H04W76/10—Connection setup
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04B—TRANSMISSION
- H04B17/00—Monitoring; Testing
- H04B17/30—Monitoring; Testing of propagation channels
- H04B17/309—Measuring or estimating channel quality parameters
- H04B17/318—Received signal strength
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04W—WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
- H04W24/00—Supervisory, monitoring or testing arrangements
- H04W24/08—Testing, supervising or monitoring using real traffic
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04W—WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
- H04W48/00—Access restriction; Network selection; Access point selection
- H04W48/18—Selecting a network or a communication service
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04W—WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
- H04W84/00—Network topologies
- H04W84/02—Hierarchically pre-organised networks, e.g. paging networks, cellular networks, WLAN [Wireless Local Area Network] or WLL [Wireless Local Loop]
- H04W84/10—Small scale networks; Flat hierarchical networks
- H04W84/12—WLAN [Wireless Local Area Networks]
Abstract
Systems and methods of selecting a network connection for a User Equipment (UE) are described. The described systems and methods include a UE receiving a wireless network proposal requesting the UE to connect to a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), the wireless network proposal received from a network proposal entity. The UE reviews at least one of: connection performance data relating to one or more previous network connections with the WLAN and/or advisor performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received from the network advisory entity. The UE then determines whether the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria based on the review. Upon determining that the criteria are satisfied, the UE establishes a wireless connection with the WLAN.
Description
Background
The proliferation of wireless communications has greatly increased the number of entities, both on and off the user equipment devices, that may attempt to control the wireless network connectivity of the user equipment devices.
Typically, a user equipment device (UE device) can only wirelessly connect to a single network (e.g., to a single Service Set Identifier (SSID)) at a given time. This single network connection may result in a conflict between network proposal entities that desire to control the network connectivity of the UE device. For example, a conflicting instance is a first network suggesting entity desiring a first network connection and a second network suggesting entity desiring a second (different) network connection. In this case, the current solution is to let the "last caller win" and fulfill the most recently received network connection call (in this example, the network connection call from the second network proposal entity). As a result of this last caller winning solution, the first network proposal entity may again request a connection to the first network connection, potentially triggering a connection loop in which the UE device repeatedly connects and disconnects from both network connections in order to satisfy the requests from both network proposal entities, unnecessarily consuming power and network resources.
Sometimes, the UE device will not be able to connect to the wireless network connection suggested by the network suggestion entity. In such a case, the UE device and the network may unnecessarily consume power and network resources in attempting to make such a connection.
Sometimes, the UE device will connect to the wireless network connection suggested by the network suggestion entity, but may not end up using that network connection. In this case, the UE device and the network would unnecessarily consume power resources and network resources when making such a connection.
Sometimes, the UE device will connect to a wireless network connection suggested by the network suggestion entity for the purpose of restriction (e.g., local-only (no internet access) Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)) and when the purpose of restriction is completed, the UE device may continue to use the wireless network connection, although an internet-capable WLAN network connection is available to the UE device. In some instances, the internet access availability of the device will be unnecessarily interrupted. In some cases, the UE device may connect to a cellular data network in order to provide internet access to the UE device, and the user may incur unnecessary cellular network charges (e.g., due to unnecessary utilization of cellular data).
Sometimes, the UE device may connect to a wireless network connection (e.g., a cellular network) suggested by the network suggestion entity for restriction purposes, and when the restriction purposes are completed, the UE device may continue to use the wireless network, although a wireless local area network connection is available to the UE device. In this case, the user may incur unnecessary cellular network charges (e.g., due to unnecessary utilization of cellular data). In addition, even if the proposed network is a WLAN network, the user may incur unnecessary fees (e.g., the user may carry valuable documents below an airport connection to a fast WLAN network, but the airport may also provide a free but slower WLAN network sufficient for web browsing and email.
Disclosure of Invention
This document describes techniques and apparatus for a user equipment device (UE device) to select a wireless network connection to connect to, particularly when multiple wireless network connection options are presented. The techniques include the UE device receiving a proposed network connection from a network proposal entity and reviewing performance data regarding the network proposal entity and/or the proposed network connection to determine whether the UE device should connect to the proposed network connection.
The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims. This summary is provided to introduce the subject matter that is further described in the detailed description and the drawings. Thus, the summary should not be used to describe essential features nor should it be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
Drawings
This specification describes techniques and apparatus for a user equipment device to select a wireless network connection with reference to the following figures. The same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features and components:
fig. 1 illustrates an example wireless network environment that can implement various aspects of selecting a wireless network connection in a user equipment device.
Fig. 2 illustrates an example apparatus diagram of a user equipment device in which aspects of selecting a wireless network connection may be implemented.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example apparatus diagram of a base station equipment apparatus that can implement various aspects of selecting wireless network connections in a user equipment apparatus.
Fig. 4 illustrates an example apparatus diagram of a wireless local area network access point that can implement various aspects of selecting a wireless network connection in a user equipment device.
Fig. 5 illustrates an example apparatus diagram of another user equipment apparatus in which aspects of selecting a wireless network connection may be implemented.
Fig. 6 illustrates an example method of a user equipment device selecting a WLAN network connection to connect to.
Fig. 7 illustrates an example method of a user equipment device selecting a WLAN network connection to connect to.
Detailed Description
SUMMARY
Typically, cellular data connections are much more expensive for users than data connectivity using an accessible Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN). Furthermore, cellular data connections typically have lower performance (e.g., reliability, latency, end-to-end throughput) than WLAN network connections. As a result, there are great benefits to WLAN networks that exploit data connectivity whenever possible.
This document describes techniques and apparatus for a user equipment device to select a wireless network connection. Techniques and apparatus are described that include a user equipment device (UE device) receiving one or more network suggestions from one or more network suggestion entities (recommenders). Reduction in transmission frequencies and power savings transmitted/received by the UE device may result from utilizing the techniques and apparatus described herein.
Examples of a recommender (network suggestion entity) include one or more applications on the UE device and/or internal implementations of the UE device. The wireless network proposal of the recommender may request that the UE device be connected to a wireless network (e.g., a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)), and may include a mechanism for connecting to the wireless network (e.g., a credential).
In some aspects, the described techniques and apparatus further include the UE device reviewing connection performance data (e.g., data related to a proposed network connection, data related to connection performance of a proposed network connection, such as signal strength or data rate) and/or recommender performance data (e.g., data related to a network recommending entity making a network recommendation, data indicating ease of use and/or availability of a network recommending entity, such as during a monitored time period), determining that the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data satisfies one or more criteria, and if the one or more criteria are satisfied, the UE device establishing a wireless connection with the proposed wireless network.
For example, although a user of a UE device may have configured his UE device to utilize a WLAN connection of data connectivity when available, rather than utilizing cellular data, the network suggestion entity may be aware of another in-range wireless network (e.g., a cellular network, a WLAN network, a public hotspot, an ad hoc network, a WiFi network provided by a cellular network provider) that provides some additional services (e.g., a connection to a wireless printer, a Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS)) that the UE device and/or the network suggestion entity may utilize, and the network suggestion entity may recommend a connection to another wireless network.
In another example, the network suggestion entity may recommend a connection to a wireless network (e.g., a WLAN network of a nearby coffee shop) that the user of the UE device is not aware of. In another example, the network suggestion entity may recommend networks that the user of the UE device may access or networks that the user device has subscribed to (e.g., Xfinity)TMWireless Fidelity (WiFi) hotspot, BoingoTMWiFi hotspot, iPassTMWiFi hotspot). At another placeIn one example, the network suggestion entity may recommend a wireless network to which the wireless carrier may offload traffic (e.g., Project Fi)TMMobile virtual network, VerizonTMStadium WiFi). In another example, a network suggestion entity may recommend provisioning internet of things (IoT) devices (e.g., cameras, chromecasts)TMDevice) of a wireless network. In another example, the network suggestion entity may recommend a network that is integrated with the user's service industry, profession, and/or business (e.g., hotel, medical). In another example, the network suggestion entity may recommend a network of services and/or services that are being visited by the user.
In some aspects, the described techniques and devices may further include utilizing scan result prediction that predicts future connectivity scan results. For example, based on Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signals, the UE device may generate a scan result RSSI prediction that predicts future RSSI values based on previously received RSSI values, and this scan result RSSI prediction may be used by the UE device to be more selective as to when to perform a full wireless connectivity scan.
Improvements in network utilization, network capacity, interference mitigation, power savings, etc. are provided through the use of one or more of network recommendations, connection performance data, recommender performance data, and/or scan result predictions.
The present disclosure describes techniques and apparatus for a UE device to select a wireless network connection, particularly when it is presented with multiple network connection options. These techniques and apparatus enable a UE device to more efficiently select a network connection, particularly when multiple network connection options are present. As a result, there is a reduction in the frequency of transmissions sent/received by the UE device and power savings.
In contrast to cellular networks, the techniques and apparatus also increase the proportion of user equipment devices used for Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs) in order to: delivering a low cost and high performance connectivity experience to the user, increasing the percentage of time the user spends connecting to the WLAN network (versus the cellular network), decreasing the percentage of cellular data consumed by the user consumer and increasing the quality of the user's average network connection (e.g., reliability, data stall rate, end-to-end throughput, latency).
Aspects described below also include a method for a UE device to utilize in selecting a wireless network connection for a connection when presenting a plurality of wireless network connection options. The method performed by the UE device includes receiving, by at least one processor of the UE device, a wireless network suggestion requesting the user equipment to connect to a wireless network, the wireless network suggestion received from a network suggestion entity. The method includes the UE device reviewing connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the wireless network and/or advisor performance data related to previous wireless network recommendations received from a network advisory entity. In addition, the method includes the UE device determining, based on the vetted data, that the vetted data satisfies at least one criterion. The censored data may include one or more comparisons of multiple simultaneous suggestions. The method also includes the UE device establishing a wireless connection with the wireless network. The wireless network may be a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN).
Aspects described below also include a method for a UE device to utilize in selecting a wireless network connection for a connection. The method is performed by a UE device and includes storing connection performance data relating to previous network connections with a wireless network, and storing recommender performance data received by a user equipment relating to previous wireless network recommendations. At a later time, the user device may receive a new wireless network proposal requesting the user device to connect to the wireless network. The method may also include the UE device reviewing the connection performance data and the recommender performance data and determining, based on the review, that the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data satisfy the criteria. In addition, the method includes the UE device establishing a wireless connection with the wireless network. The wireless network may be a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN).
Aspects described below also include a UE apparatus comprising a transceiver; at least one processor configured to receive a current wireless network recommendation requesting connection of the UE device with a wireless network, and the processor and computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions to implement a ranking manager. The tier manager is configured to cause the UE device to measure (e.g., actively measure, passively measure) connection performance data related to previous network connections with the wireless network, store the connection performance data related to previous network connections with the wireless network, measure (e.g., actively measure, passively measure) recommender performance data related to previous wireless network recommendations received by the processor of the UE device, and store recommender performance data related to previous wireless network recommendations received by the processor of the UE device. The UE device then receives a current wireless network recommendation requesting the UE device to connect to the wireless network, reviews the connection performance data and the advisor performance data, and determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria based on the reviewed connection performance data and the advisor performance data. Upon determining that the criteria are satisfied, the UE device establishes a wireless connection with the wireless network via the transceiver. The wireless network may be a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN).
Although any number of different environments, systems, devices, and/or various configurations may implement the features and concepts described for techniques and apparatus for selecting a network connection in a UE device, aspects of selecting a wireless network connection in a UE device are described in the context of the following example devices, methods, systems, and configurations.
Example Environment
Fig. 1 illustrates an example environment 100 that may embody various aspects of a user equipment device 110 selecting a wireless network connection to connect to. In the example environment 100, the user equipment device 110(UE device 110) may communicate with the wireless network 155 via one or more wireless communication links 156 (wireless links 156). The network suggestion entity may suggest that the wireless network 155 to which UE device 110 is connected may include any suitable network, including but not limited to radio access network 140 of base station 120, wireless network 170 of wireless access point 160, device-to-device network 165 of another UE device 115 described herein, and the like. UE device 110 may communicate with wireless network 155 through one or more wireless communication links 156 (wireless links 156), which may be implemented as any suitable type or any suitable combination of types of wireless links.
The base stations 120 are collectively radio access networks 140(RAN 140, evolved Universal terrestrial radio Access network 140, E-UTRAN 140, and 5G NR RAN 140). As illustrated in fig. 1, the base stations 121 and 122 in the RAN 140 are connected to a cellular core network 150 (core network 150) to form a wireless carrier network. The core network 150 may include a 5G core network, an Evolved Packet Core (EPC), or a combination of both. When connected to the 5G core network functions, the base stations 121 and 122 are connected to the core network 150 at 101 and 102 via a NG2 interface for control plane signaling and a NG3 interface for user plane data communications, respectively. When connected to the EPC core network entity, base stations 121 and 122 are connected to the EPC entity at 101 and 102 via S1 interfaces for control plane signalling and user plane data communications, respectively. In addition to the connection to the core network, the base stations 120 may communicate with each other. Base stations 121 and 122 communicate at 105 via an Xn interface if base station 120 is a 5G base station, or base stations 121 and 122 communicate over an X2 interface if base station 120 is an E-UTRA base station.
UE device 110 (e.g., UE device 111) may also be wirelessly connected with one or more other UE devices 115 (e.g., UE device 116, UE device 117) via a device-to-device wireless connection (e.g., wireless communication link 108). Another UE device 115 may represent a device-to-device network 165. In one example, the other UE device 116 is an internet of things device and the device-to-device network 165 is an ad hoc network. In another example, the other UE device 117 is a smartphone, andthe device-to-device network 165 is BluetoothTMA network. In another example, another UE device 116 is a laptop computer acting as a Wi-Fi direct device and the device-to-device network 165 is a Wi-Fi direct network. In another example, the other UE device 117 is a wireless printer and the device-to-device network 165 is an IEEE 802.11 network.
Although the UE device 111 is illustrated as a smartphone, the UE device 110 may be implemented as any suitable computing or electronic device, such as a user equipment device, a mobile communication device, a computing device, a client device, a mobile handset, a tablet, a laptop, a communication device, an entertainment device, a gaming device, a mobile gaming machine, a personal media device, a media playing device, a charging station, an Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS), a point of sale (POS) transaction system, a health monitoring device, a drone, a camera, a wearable smart device, a navigation device, a Mobile Internet Device (MID), an internet home appliance capable of wireless internet access and browsing, an internet of things (IoT) device, a fifth generation new radio user equipment, and/or other types of user devices.
In fig. 1, base stations 120 (e.g., base station 121, base station 122) are each illustrated as towers of a cellular network. However, the base station 120 may represent or be implemented as another device, a radio access node, a wireless communication node, or other suitable apparatus that facilitates wireless communication (via a wireless link) between a user equipment device and a communication network, such as a NodeB, a next generation base NodeB (gnb), an enhanced NodeB (enb), an evolved NodeB (enodeb), a global system for mobile communications (GSM) base, a Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) base, a base transceiver system, a Local Access Network (LAN) router, a Wireless Local Access Network (WLAN) router, a Wireless Access Point (WAP) in a managed (infrastructure) wireless network, a satellite, a terrestrial television broadcast tower, an access point, a peer device, another smartphone that serves as a base station, and so forth. Base station 120 (e.g., evolved universal terrestrial radio access network node B, E-UTRAN node B, evolved node B, eNodeB, eNB, next generation node B, enode B, gNB, etc.) may be implemented in a macro cell, a micro cell, a small cell, a pico cell, etc., or any combination thereof.
In fig. 1, wireless APs 160 (e.g., AP 161, AP 162) are each shown as a wireless access point. However, AP 160 may represent or be implemented as another apparatus, a radio access node, a wireless communication node, or other suitable device that facilitates wireless communication (via a wireless link) between a user equipment device and a communication network, such as a Local Access Network (LAN) router, a Wireless Local Access Network (WLAN) router, a Wireless Access Point (WAP) in a managed (infrastructure) wireless network, WiMAX subscriber station, WiMAX gateway apparatus, Wi-Fi direct apparatus, a satellite, a terrestrial television broadcast tower, an access point, a peer apparatus, a user equipment device, another smart phone acting as a base station, a user equipment device acting as a base station, a wireless ad hoc network node, and so forth.
In fig. 1, another UE device 115 (e.g., UE device 116, UE device 117) is illustrated as a smartphone. However, another UE device 115 may represent or be implemented as another apparatus, a radio access node, a wireless communication node, or other suitable device that facilitates wireless communication (via a wireless link) between a user equipment device and a communication network, such as a Local Access Network (LAN) router, a Wireless Local Access Network (WLAN) router, a Wireless Access Point (WAP) in a managed (infrastructure) wireless network, WiMAX gateway device, Wi-Fi subscriber station direct device, a satellite, a terrestrial television broadcast tower, an access point, a peer device, a user equipment device, another smart phone acting as a base station, a user equipment device acting as a base station, a wireless ad hoc network node, or the like.
Example apparatus
Fig. 2 illustrates an example device diagram 200 of UE device 110. UE device 110 may include additional functions and interfaces omitted from fig. 2 for clarity. UE device 110 includes an antenna 202, a radio frequency front end 204(RF front end 204), and at least one transceiver 206 for communicating with another UE device 115, wireless access point 160, and/or base station 120. Alternatively or additionally, any components of UE device 110 may be implemented in whole or in part as hardware logic or circuitry integrated with or separate from other components of UE device 110.
The transceiver 206 may include one or more of an LTE transceiver, a 5G NR transceiver, a WLAN transceiver configured to operate in any WLAN frequency band and using any protocol defined in the IEEE 802.11 specification, and/or another transceiver. RF front end 204 of UE device 110 may couple or connect transceiver 206 to antenna 202 to facilitate various types of wireless communication (e.g., for communicating with another UE device 115, for communicating with AP 160, for communicating with base station 120). For example, UE device 110 may utilize the connectivity scan to search for a wireless network 155 to connect to (e.g., device-to-device wireless network 165 of another UE device 115, wireless network 170 of AP 160, RAN 140 of base station 120). The antenna 202 of the UE device 110 may include an array of multiple antennas configured to be similar to each other or different from each other. The antenna 202 and the RF front end 204 may be tuned and/or tunable to one or more frequency bands defined by a wireless communication standard and implemented by the transceiver 206.
The CRM 214 may also include a user device manager 228. Alternatively or additionally, the user equipment manager 228 may be implemented in whole or in part as hardware logic or circuitry integrated with or separate from other components of the UE device 110. In at least some aspects, the user equipment manager 228 configures the RF front end 204 and/or the transceiver 206 to implement techniques for selecting a wireless network connection to connect to as described herein.
The CRM 214 may also include executable code of a hierarchy manager 218 (e.g., hierarchy manager application 218, WiFi scorer). Alternatively or in addition, ranking manager 218 may be implemented in whole or in part as hardware logic or circuitry integrated with or separate from other components of UE device 110. In at least some aspects, UE device 110 performs operations associated with selecting a wireless network connection to connect via processor 212 executing code of hierarchy manager 218 in accordance with aspects described herein.
The classification manager 218 of the UE device 110 may measure (e.g., actively measure, passively measure) and collect connection performance data related to the wireless network 155. Connection performance data may be collected when a connection to the wireless network 155 (via the wireless link 156) is active and/or is disconnected. In some cases, a network suggestion entity (e.g., an application 220 on UE device 110) may provide connection performance data to the ranking manager 218. For example, application 220 may have access to information that UE device 110 is not measuring or cannot measure. Such information may include, for example, past performance of wireless network 155 and/or presence of wireless network 155 unknown to UE device 110, access that the user has paid for.
To protect user privacy, give information in a timely manner, and not require remote connections to be made, the tier manager 218 of the UE device 110 stores connection performance data as device data 216 in the CRM 214. The connection performance data may include data such as connection data (e.g., Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signals, data rate information (bandwidth information), latency information, end-to-end throughput, connection duration information, average connection length, signal quality information), network identification information (e.g., size limitation information for Basic Service Set Identifiers (BSSIDs), recently utilized wireless communication channels) and other information (e.g., data related to a disconnection, data related to a loss of connectivity, data related to a reason for a disconnection (such as data in the form of corresponding disconnection parameters indicating one of several predefined reasons for a loss of connectivity by their parameter values), data related to a reason for a loss of connectivity (such as data in the form of corresponding connection parameters indicating one of several predefined reasons for a loss of connectivity by their parameter values), or a combination thereof, Data relating to whether disconnection (disconnection) is expected or unexpected (e.g., data such as in the form of corresponding expected parameters indicating whether disconnection (disconnection) is expected or unexpected by their parameter values), wireless network connection information (e.g., Service Set Identifier (SSID) information, authentication information), information about wireless connection availability (e.g., when wireless access is no longer authorized when wireless connection can be used), Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, Domain Name System (DNS) servers utilized, information about UE device systems).
The classification manager 218 of the UE device 110 may utilize the connection performance data to populate (e.g., generate, update) a network report (e.g., report card) for the wireless network 155. The network report may include previous connection performance data regarding the wireless network 155. UE device 110 may receive connection performance data for UE device 110 as a result of a connectivity scan performed by UE device 110. Based on the additional connectivity scans performed, the ranking manager 218 may update the network reports for the wireless network 155. To protect user privacy, give information in a timely manner, and not require remote connections, the tier manager 218 stores the network reports as device data 216 in the CRM 214.
According to aspects described herein, the network selector 224 may use network reports for the wireless network 155 when performing operations associated with selecting a network connection to connect to. Ranking manager 218 may use the network report for wireless network 155 to tune the frequency of network scoring for that wireless network, allowing UE device 110 to adapt control and scanning to wireless network 155.
In some aspects, the frequency and timing of when to request connectivity scans is adjusted when UE device 110 by utilizing network quality predictions and historical connection performance data from network reports. For example, instead of checking for beacons having received signal strength indicator (beacon RSSI) values at set intervals (e.g., three (3) seconds), the tier manager 218 may utilize connection performance data in the network report to set the RSSI threshold. When the UE device 110 detects an RSSI violation event (e.g., when the measured RSSI score predicts a disconnection occurred), the rank manager 218 of the UE device 110 may trigger a connectivity scan (or series of connectivity scans) to find an alternative wireless network 155 to connect to. In another example, when UE device 110 detects a change in the network proposal received from the network proposal entity (e.g., receives a new network proposal that suggests a connection to a more reliable wireless network than the currently connected wireless network), ranking manager 218 of UE device 110 may trigger a connectivity scan (or series of connectivity scans) to find an alternate wireless network 155 to connect to.
In some cases, UE device 110 may further utilize a combination of connection performance data from the network reports and the network quality predictions to modify a list of preferred networks (e.g., a Preferred Network Offload (PNO) list) to further reduce the time spent looking for wireless network 155, thereby conserving battery power. To protect user privacy, give information in a timely manner, and not require remote connections, the UE device 110 stores a preferred network offload list as device data 216 in the CRM 214.
Information from the connectivity scan results may be used by UE device 110 to make decisions regarding whether to connect to a wireless network and to which wireless network to connect. In some cases, the ranking manager 218 may use the results of the connectivity scan to generate a scan result prediction that predicts future scan results. For example, the ranking manager 218 may use RSSI results from the connectivity scan to generate a scan result RSSI prediction that predicts future RSSI values based on previously received RSSI values. To protect user privacy, give information in a timely manner, and not require a remote connection, the tier manager 218 stores the scan result prediction as device data 216 in the CRM 214.
The CRM 214 may also include executable code for a network selector 224 (e.g., a network selector application 224). Alternatively or in addition, the network selector 224 may be implemented in whole or in part as hardware logic or circuitry integrated with or separate from other components of the UE device 110. In at least some aspects, according to aspects described herein, UE device 110 performs operations associated with selecting a wireless network connection to connect via processor 212 executing code of network selector 224. The network selector 224 may utilize the connection performance data in one or more network reports during the wireless network selection process to determine whether to connect to a wireless network and to determine which of a plurality of wireless networks to connect to. Using such network reports, UE device 110 may adapt control and wireless network scanning to a particular wireless network.
In some cases, the network selector 224 is configured to utilize the scan result predictions generated by the ranking manager 218. For example, the network selector 224 may use scan result prediction during the network selection process to determine that the wireless network is a temporary network. The temporary network may be a network that is only temporarily available (e.g., due to movement of the access point, movement of the UE device). For example, the scan result prediction may be based on the network selector 224 of the UE device 110 observing that the Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal from the wireless network 155 changes gradually, i.e., becomes stronger (or weaker). Based on the received RSSI signals, the classification manager 218 of the UE device 110 may predict that the wireless network 155 is a temporary network, such as a transportation vehicle (e.g., bus, train) with 5G new radio mobile integrated access and a backhaul node providing wireless connectivity to user equipment devices on the vehicle, where the vehicle moves along a route adjacent to the user equipment device location. Based on this prediction, UE device 110 may decide not to connect to the wireless network. By utilizing scan result prediction during the network selection process, UE device 110 need not detect motion (e.g., utilizing a motion sensor, utilizing a location sensor, utilizing an environmental sensor, utilizing a Global Positioning System (GPS) sensor, utilizing a geomagnetic field sensor) to determine that the detected wireless network 155 is a temporary network.
As described above, RF front end 204 of UE device 110 may couple or connect transceiver 206 to antenna 202 to facilitate various types of wireless communications, including utilizing connectivity scanning to search for wireless networks 155 to connect to (e.g., device-to-device wireless network 165 of another UE device 115, wireless network 170 of AP 160, RAN 140 of base station 120).
In some previous embodiments, an application on the user equipment device may utilize an API service of the user equipment device to control aspects and functionality of the user equipment device. For example, an application may make a low-level network save/enable/connect call to an API to request a connection to a wireless network.
In some aspects, the API 226 may not include low-level network save/enable/connect function calls, but rather the API 226 may permit a network suggestion entity to make network suggestions that suggest one or more wireless networks 155 to which the UE device 110 is connected. Alternatively, the low-level network save/enable/connect function call may be modified to permit the network suggestion entity to make network suggestions that suggest one or more wireless networks 155 to which the UE device 110 is connected.
In some cases, the network suggestion entity is an internal implementation 222 (e.g., an operating system of the UE device, an open network notification system (e.g., ONA, ONN), Settings of the UE device (e.g., Settings), a stored network evaluator system of the UE device 110 (e.g., savednetwork evaluator), hi some cases, the network suggestion entity is an application 220 on the UE device 110. by using such network suggestions, the application 220 may shift the burden of discovering the wireless network 155 to the system of the UE device 110. by so shifting the burden, the application 220 need not publish and/or process scan results. Applications 220 that do not need to publish and/or process scan results may be run with fewer permissions, thereby improving user privacy.
The advisor performance data may include at least one of: information about the frequency of previous successful connections to the wireless network, and/or information about previous use of the wireless network after a successful connection. The hierarchy manager 218 of the UE device 110 may be enabledThe success of each network recommending entity (advisor) is ranked by compiling performance data (advisor performance data) regarding the performance of the recommended network. To protect user privacy, give information in a timely manner, and not require a remote connection, advisor performance data is saved as device data 216 to the CRM 214. In some cases, the advisor performance data includes information about the frequency of successful previous connections to the wireless network that the network advisory entity advises and/or information about previous uses of the wireless network that the network advisory entity advised after a successful connection (e.g., whether the network advisory entity and/or the UE device 110 utilized the network connection after making the wireless network connection). In some cases, recommender performance data that does not contain personally identifiable information may be associated with a merchant (e.g., Google Play)TMStore) sharing to help merchants evaluate the network proposal entity application for the benefit of the merchant's customers and/or to inform users of reliability and quality.
In some cases, UE device 110 may modify and/or maintain a list of preferred networks (e.g., a Preferred Network Offload (PNO) list) using network recommendations. By providing for improved use of such a list of preferred networks, UE device 110 reduces the amount of time consumed and connectivity scans utilized to find networks 155 to connect to, thereby conserving battery power and network resources.
The network proposal may have a lifetime (e.g., n times used, used before/during/after a predetermined time, persistent use). In some cases, the lifetime may indicate a single (one) use. In some cases, the useful life may indicate use for a predetermined period of time (e.g., one month). In some cases, the lifetime may be persistent (e.g., still ongoing until the application indicates otherwise, still ongoing until UE device 110 decides otherwise). For example, if the network proposal received from the application suggests connection to a particular network at any time that the network is within range, UE device 110 may consider the connection of the network at any time that the network is within range (e.g., finding the network SSID in the connection scan results), regardless of whether the application is currently running on UE device 110. In some cases, whether to end the proposed persistent service life may be automatically reevaluated (e.g., when the current network is disconnected).
Different network recommenders may have different terms of service, pricing, and/or performance levels with respect to the wireless network 155 to which they recommend a connection. By ranking the network advisors in the network report with respect to outcome and performance, information may be provided that may be used by the network selector 224 to determine which of a plurality of network advisors provides a viable and high performance network advisor.
With such a ranking of network reports, the network selector 224 can select the network proposal that provides the best effort and performance, even though multiple applications 220 may have proposed the same wireless network 155. For example, a first application may suggest a connection to the wireless network 170 via the access point 161 with a first subscription, and a second application may suggest a connection to the wireless network 170 via the access point 161 with a second subscription. By reviewing and comparing the connection performance data, the network selector 224 may determine that the wireless network connection suggested by the first application is more feasible/higher performing than the network suggested by the second application. In this case, the network selector 224 may select the wireless network connection suggested by the first application to connect to.
The absence of network recommendations received from the advisor may also be exploited to influence and optimize connectivity scanning. For example, if no network is available and no application 220 is requesting access to a wireless network, UE device 110 may reduce the frequency of wireless connectivity scans. The absence of network recommendations received from the advisor may also be leveraged to influence and optimize wireless power states. For example, if no wireless network is available and no application 220 is requesting access to the wireless network, the UE device 110 may transition to a lower power state.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example apparatus diagram 300 of a base station 120. For clarity, the base station 120 may include additional functions and interfaces omitted from fig. 3. The apparatus diagram of base station 120 shown in fig. 3 includes a single network node (e.g., a enode B). The functionality of the base station 120 may be distributed over multiple network nodes or devices, and may be distributed in any manner suitable for performing the functions described herein. Base station 120 includes antennas 352, radio frequency front end 354(RF front end 354), and one or more transceivers 356 for communicating with UE device 110. An RF front end 354 of base station 120 may couple or connect a transceiver 356 to antenna 352 to facilitate various types of wireless communication. The antenna 352 of the base station 120 may include an array of multiple antennas configured to be similar to each other or different from each other. The antenna 352 and the RF front end 354 may be tuned and/or tunable to one or more frequency bands defined by a communication standard and implemented by the transceiver 356.
CRM362 also includes a base station manager 366. Alternatively or in addition, base station manager 366 may be implemented in whole or in part as hardware logic or circuitry integrated with or separate from other components of base station 120. In at least some aspects, base station manager 366 configures transceiver 356 for communication with UE device 110 and with the core network. Base station 120 includes an inter-base station interface 368, such as an Xn and/or X2 interface, and base station manager 366 is configured to exchange user plane and control plane data between another base station 120 and to manage communications between base station 120 and UE device 110. The base station 120 includes a core network interface 370, and the base station manager 366 configures the core network interface 370 to exchange user plane and control plane data with core network functions and entities. This core network interface 370 may include interfaces such as NG2 interface 101 and NG3 interface 102, as previously described with respect to fig. 1.
Fig. 4 illustrates an example apparatus diagram 400 of an access point 160(AP 160). For clarity, AP 160 may include additional functions and interfaces that are omitted from fig. 4. AP 160 includes an antenna 402, a radio frequency front end 404(RF front end 404), and one or more transceivers 406 configured for WLAN communication with UE device 110. RF front end 404 may couple or connect transceiver 406 to antenna 402 to facilitate various types of wireless communication. Antenna 402 of AP 160 may include an array of multiple antennas configured similarly or differently from one another. The antenna 402 and the RF front end 404 may be tuned and/or tunable to one or more frequency bands defined by the IEEE 802.11 communication standard and implemented by the transceiver 406.
Fig. 5 illustrates an example device diagram 500 of another user device 115(UE device 115). For clarity, the UE device 115 may include additional functions and interfaces omitted from fig. 5. UE device 115 includes an antenna 502, a radio frequency front end 504(RF front end 504), one or more transceivers 506 configured to communicate with UE device 110. RF front end 504 may couple or connect transceiver 506 to antenna 502 to facilitate various types of wireless communication. The antenna 502 of the UE device 115 may include an array of multiple antennas configured similarly or differently from one another. The antenna 502 and the RF front end 504 may be tuned and/or tunable to one or more frequency bands defined by any wireless communication standard and implemented by the transceiver 506.
System for controlling a power supply
In some aspects, UE device 110 includes at least one transceiver 206, at least one processor 212, and a computer-readable storage medium 214(CRM 214). The processor 212 is configured to receive a network suggestion from a network suggestion entity. In some cases, the network suggestion entity is an application 220 on the CRM 214. In some aspects, the network proposal entity is an internal implementation 222 of UE device 110.
In some aspects, the network proposal requests a UE device to connect to the wireless network 155. Wireless network 155 may be a WLAN network 170 associated with one or more WLAN access points 160. The wireless network 155 may be a radio access network 140(RAN 140) associated with one or more base stations 120. The wireless network 155 may be a device-to-device network 165 associated with another UE device 115.
In some aspects, the processor and computer-readable storage medium together comprise instructions for implementing a ratings manager 218 (e.g., ratings manager application 218). Hierarchy manager 218 may be configured to cause UE device 110 to store information related to wireless network 155, for example, as device data 216 stored in CRM 214. In some aspects, the information related to the wireless network 155 is connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections of the wireless network 155. In some cases, the information is connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections of UE device 110 with wireless network 155.
In some aspects, the ranking manager 218 may be configured to cause the UE device 110 to store information related to the network proposal entity, for example as device data 216 stored in the CRM 214. The information may include recommender performance data relating to one or more previously suggested executions received from a network recommending entity (recommender). The information may include network suggestion performance data related to one or more previous suggestions received by at least one processor of UE device 110 from a recommender.
In some aspects, ranking manager 218 may be configured to receive a network proposal from a network proposal entity requesting a connection of UE device 110 to a wireless network. In response to the ranking manager 218 receiving the network proposal, the UE device 110 may be configured to review the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data to determine whether the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data satisfy one or more criteria. The review and determination of whether the advisor performance data satisfies at least one criterion may include a comparison of the advisor performance data with advisor performance data of other network advisory entities. The review and determination of whether the recommender performance data meets the at least one criterion may include comparing the recommender performance data with recommender performance data of other network recommending entities, and additional information about the network recommending entities and/or other network recommendations made by the network recommending entities. Upon UE device 110 determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies at least one criterion, UE device 110 may initiate and establish a wireless connection with wireless network 155 via transceiver 206.
In some aspects, the connection performance data may include a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal and the criterion may be an RSSI threshold (e.g., average RSSI) detected by the classification manager 218. The connection performance data may include data rate information and the criterion may be a data rate threshold (e.g., average data rate) of the signal detected by the classification manager 218. The connection performance data may include latency information and the criterion may be a latency threshold detected by the classification manager. The connection performance data may include end-to-end throughput, and the criterion may be a throughput threshold detected by the classification manager. The recommender performance data may comprise at least one of information on frequency of previous successful connections with the wireless network and information on previous usage of the wireless network after a successful connection, and the criterion may be a threshold of successful connections and/or a threshold of usage of successful connections by the network recommending entity.
The additional information may be utilized as part of determining whether the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria. For example, received user input regarding user preferences may be used as part of a determination to determine whether the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy a criterion. In another example, data relating to a state (e.g., battery level) of UE device 110 may be utilized as part of the reviewed data as part of determining whether the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria.
In some aspects, network selector 224 of UE device 110 reviews the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data and determines whether the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data meets criteria. Ranking manager 218 may be configured to cause UE device 110 to initiate and establish a wireless connection with wireless network 155 via transceiver 206 when ranking manager 218 determines that the connection performance data and/or advisor performance data satisfies criteria.
In some aspects, the processor 212 and the computer-readable storage medium 214 may include instructions for implementing the application 220. The processor 212 and CRM 214 may receive web suggestions from the application 220. After UE device 110 initiates a radio connection, application 220 may utilize the established network connection.
Upon connecting to the wireless network 155, if authentication information (e.g., authorization data, login data) from the application 220 is required to establish a connection with the wireless network 155, the system may trigger a callback corresponding to 220 requesting such authentication data. Upon connecting to the wireless network 155, the system may request such authentication data from the user if authorization information (e.g., authorization data, login data) is required from the user to establish a connection with the wireless network 155.
In some aspects, the network proposal suggests a device-to-device connection with one or more of the radio access network 140 of the base station 120, the wireless network 170 of the wireless access point 160, or another UE device 115. In some aspects, network recommendation may be made by an internal implementation (e.g., an operating system of the UE device, an open network notification system (e.g., ONA, ONN), Settings of the UE device (e.g., Settings), a saved network evaluator system of the UE device 110 (e.g., SavedNetworkEvaluator).
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from application 220 requesting a connection to base station 122. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with base station 122 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from application 220. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with base station 122.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from application 220 requesting connection to AP 162. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with AP 162 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from application 220. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the AP 162.
In some aspects, UE device 110 is connected to a wireless network (WLAN) AP 161 and receives a network proposal from an application 220 requesting a connection to another WLAN AP 162. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with WLAN AP 162 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from application 220. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the WLAN AP 162.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to WLAN AP 161 and receives a network proposal from application 220 requesting connection to WLAN AP 162, where WLAN AP 162 is in a different WLAN network than WLAN AP 161. UE 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with AP 162 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from application 220. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the AP 162.
In some aspects, UE device 110 receives a first network suggestion from a first application requesting connection to a first WLAN network and receives a second network suggestion from a second application requesting connection to a second WLAN network. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the first WLAN network and the second WLAN network. UE device 110 reviews recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from the first application and the second application. UE device 110 determines which connection performance data and/or recommender performance data satisfies the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data meets the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the first WLAN network.
In some aspects, UE device 110 receives a first network suggestion from a first application requesting connection to a first WLAN network and receives a second network suggestion from a second application requesting connection to a second WLAN network. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the first WLAN network and the second WLAN network. UE device 110 reviews recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from the first application and the second application. UE device 110 determines which connection performance data and/or recommender performance data satisfies the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data meets the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the second WLAN network.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from application 220 requesting a device-to-device network 165 to connect to UE device 116. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the device-to-device network 165 of UE device 116 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from application 220. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria, UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with device-to-device network 165 of UE device 116.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from internal implementation 222 requesting a connection to base station 122. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with base station 122 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from internal implementation 222. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with base station 122.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from internal implementation 222 requesting a connection to AP 162. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with AP 162 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from internal implementation 222. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, the UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with the AP 162.
In some aspects, UE device 110 connects to AP 161 and receives a network proposal from internal implementation 222 requesting a device-to-device network 165 to connect to UE device 116. UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the device-to-device network 165 of UE device 116 and/or recommender performance data related to one or more previous network recommendations received from internal implementation 222. UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria based on the reviewed information. Upon determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfy the criteria, UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with device-to-device network 165 of UE device 116.
In addition to the above description, the user may be provided with controls that allow the user to make selections as to whether and when the systems, programs, or features described herein may enable collection of user information (e.g., Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signals, connection duration information, average connection length, signal quality information, network identification information, network Basic Service Set Identifier (BSSID) information, recently utilized wireless communication channels, user preferences, user's current location), and whether the user is sent content or communications from a server. In addition, certain data may be processed in one or more ways before it is stored or used, so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example, the identification of the user may be processed such that personally identifiable information cannot be determined for the user. For example, the user's geographic location may be generalized (such as to a city, zip code, or state level) with location information obtained such that the user's particular location cannot be determined. Thus, the user may have control over what information is collected about the user, how the information is used, and what information is provided to the user.
Example method
The UE device 110 in example methods 600 and 700 may be implemented as any suitable computing or electronic device, such as a user equipment device, a mobile communication device, a computing device, a client device, a mobile phone, a tablet, a laptop, a communication device, an entertainment device, a gaming device, a mobile gaming machine, a personal media device, a media playing device, a charging station, an Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS), a point of sale (POS) transaction system, a health monitoring device, a drone, a camera, a wearable smart device, a navigation device, a Mobile Internet Device (MID), an internet home appliance capable of wireless internet access and browsing, an internet of things (IoT) device, a fifth generation new radio user equipment, and/or other types of user devices.
At 604, UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with WLAN 170. At 606, the UE device reviews the advisor performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received from the network recommendation entity.
At 608, UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data satisfies the criteria based on its review of the connection performance data and the recommender performance data. In some cases, the connection performance data may include a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal, and the criterion may be an RSSI threshold (e.g., average RSSI) detected by the UE device 110. In some cases, the connection performance data may include data rate information and the criterion may be a data rate threshold for signals detected by UE device 110. In some cases, the advisor performance data may be information about the frequency of previous successful connections to the wireless network and/or information about previous uses of the wireless network advised after a successful connection, and the criteria may be a threshold of successful connections and/or a threshold of network advise entities using successful connections.
At 610, in response to determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, UE device 110 establishes a wireless connection with WLAN 170.
At 706, UE device 110 receives a network proposal from a network proposal entity requesting a connection of the UE device to wireless local area network 165. The network proposal entity may be an application 220 on UE device 110 or an internal implementation 222 of UE device 110.
At 708, UE device 110 reviews connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with WLAN 170. At 710, UE device 110 reviews recommender performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received from the network recommendation entity. At 712, UE device 110 determines that the connection performance data and/or the recommender performance data satisfies the criteria based on reviewing the connection performance data and the recommender performance data. In some cases, the connection performance data may include a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal, and the criterion may be an RSSI threshold (e.g., average RSSI) detected by the UE device 110. In some cases, the connection performance data may include data rate information and the criterion is a data rate threshold for signals detected by UE device 110. In some cases, the advisor performance data may include information about the frequency of previous successful connections to the wireless network and/or information about previous use of the wireless network after a successful connection, and the criteria may be a threshold of successful connections and/or a threshold at which the network advises the entity to use a successful connection.
At 714, in response to determining that the connection performance data and/or the advisor performance data satisfies the criteria, the UE device 110 device establishes a wireless connection with the WLAN 170.
Variants
Although the systems and methods described above are described in the context of a UE device selecting a wireless network connection to connect among a plurality of wireless connection options available for connection, the described systems and methods are non-limiting and may be applied to other contexts or wireless communication environments.
Generally, any of the components, modules, methods, and operations described herein can be implemented using software, firmware, hardware (e.g., fixed logic circuitry), manual processing, or any combination thereof. Some operations of the example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on a computer-readable storage memory local and/or remote to a computer processing system, and embodiments may include software applications, programs, functions, and so forth. Alternatively or additionally, any of the functionality described herein may be performed, at least in part, by one or more hardware logic components, such as, but not limited to, Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Application Specific Standard Products (ASSPs), system-on-a-chip (socs), Complex Programmable Logic Devices (CPLDs), coprocessors, context hubs, motion coprocessors, sensor coprocessors, and so forth.
Although aspects of UE device selection for wireless network connection have been described in language specific to features and/or methods, the subject of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather, the specific features and methods are disclosed as example embodiments of the UE device selecting a wireless network connection, and other equivalent features and methods are intended to be within the scope of the appended claims. In addition, various aspects are described, and it is to be appreciated that each described aspect can be implemented independently or together with respect to other described aspects.
Claims (33)
1. A method performed by a user equipment, the method comprising:
receiving a wireless network proposal from a network proposal entity requesting the user equipment to connect to a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN);
reviewing data comprising at least one or more of:
connection performance data relating to previous network connections with said WLAN, an
Recommender performance data related to previous wireless network recommendations received from the network recommendation entity;
determining, based on the reviewed data, that the reviewed data satisfies a criterion; and
establishing a wireless connection with the WLAN in response to determining that the reviewed data satisfies a criterion.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the criteria comprises at least one threshold that parameter values of the vetted data must satisfy before establishing the wireless connection with the WLAN.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the connection performance data comprises at least one or more of: receiving a signal strength indicator (RSSI) signal, data rate information, delay information, and end-to-end throughput; and is
Wherein the criteria include at least one or more of: an average RSSI threshold, a data rate threshold, a delay threshold, and an end-to-end throughput threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining, based on the reviewed data, that the reviewed data satisfies a criterion comprises: determining whether a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal from the WLAN is gradually changing.
5. The method of any one of claims 1-4,
wherein the recommender performance data comprises at least one or more of: information on the frequency of previous successful connections to the WLAN and information on previous use of the WLAN after a successful connection, and
wherein the criteria include at least one or more of:
a threshold for successful connection, and
the network advises the entity of a threshold for use of successful connections.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, further comprising at least one or more of:
storing the connection performance data prior to receiving the wireless network proposal; and
storing the recommender performance data prior to receiving the wireless network recommendation.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the network suggestion entity is an application on the user device or an internal implementation of the user device.
8. A method performed by a user equipment, the method comprising:
storing connection performance data relating to one or more previous network connections with a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN);
storing recommender performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received by a processor of the user device;
receiving a current wireless network recommendation requesting the user device to connect to the WLAN;
reviewing the connection performance data and the advisor performance data;
determining, based on reviewing the connection performance data and the advisor performance data, at least one or more of:
the connection performance data satisfies a criterion, an
The recommender performance data satisfies a criterion; and
establishing, by the user equipment, a wireless connection with the WLAN.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
storing the connection performance data when a connection with the WLAN is active and/or disconnected.
10. The method according to any one of claims 8-9, further comprising:
utilizing the connection performance data to populate a network report for the WLAN, the network report including previous connection performance data regarding the WLAN.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising:
adjusting a frequency and/or timing of connectivity scanning by the user equipment based on the network report.
12. The method according to any one of claims 10-11, further comprising:
modifying, at the user equipment, the list of preferred networks based on the network report.
13. The method of any of claims 8-12, further comprising receiving user input from a user of the user device regarding the WLAN; and
considering the user input in determining at least one or more of:
the connection performance data satisfies a criterion, and
the recommender performance data satisfies a criterion.
14. The method of any of claims 8-13, wherein an application running on the user device provides the current wireless network recommendation.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising using, by the application, the wireless connection established by the user equipment with the WLAN.
16. The method according to any one of claims 8-15, wherein:
the connection performance data includes at least one of:
signal quality information at the disconnection;
data rate information at disconnection;
a disconnection parameter indicating one of a number of predefined reasons for disconnection from the WLAN by a parameter value of the disconnection parameter;
a disconnection parameter indicating one of a number of predefined reasons for a disconnection from the WLAN and whether the reason for the disconnection is expected or unexpected by a parameter value of the disconnection parameter;
restriction information of a Basic Service Set Identifier (BSSID) size;
connection duration information; or
Wireless network connection information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the signal quality information at disconnection comprises a signal strength indicator (RSSI) signal.
18. The method of any one of claims 8-17,
wherein the connection performance data comprises a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal; and is
Wherein the criterion comprises an average RSSI threshold.
19. The method of any one of claims 8-18,
wherein the connection performance data comprises data rate information, latency information, and/or end-to-end throughput; and is
Wherein the criteria include at least one or more of: a data rate threshold, a delay threshold, and an end-to-end throughput threshold for signals detected by the user equipment.
20. The method of any one of claims 8-19,
wherein the recommender performance data comprises at least one or more of: information about the frequency of previous successful connections with the WLAN and information about previous usage of the WLAN after successful connections.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the first and second portions are selected from the group consisting of,
wherein the criteria include a threshold for successful connections and/or a threshold for use of successful connections by the network proposal entity.
22. The method according to any one of claims 8-21, further comprising:
collecting, by the user equipment, additional connection performance data and recommender performance data when the wireless connection is active; and
storing, by the user device, the additional connection performance data and recommender performance data.
23. A user equipment, comprising:
a transceiver;
at least one processor configured to receive a current wireless network recommendation requesting the user equipment to connect to a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN); and is
The processor and computer-readable storage medium include instructions for implementing a ranking manager configured to cause the user device to:
measuring connection performance data related to one or more previous network connections with the WLAN;
storing the connection performance data relating to one or more previous network connections with the WLAN;
measuring recommender performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received by the user equipment;
storing the recommender performance data relating to one or more previous wireless network recommendations received by the user device;
receiving the current wireless network recommendation requesting the user device to connect to the WLAN;
reviewing the connection performance data and the advisor performance data;
based on reviewing the connection performance data and the advisor performance data, determining at least one or more of:
the connection performance data satisfies at least one criterion, an
The recommender performance data satisfies at least one criterion; and is
Establishing a wireless connection with the WLAN via the transceiver.
24. The user equipment of claim 23, further comprising:
a user interface configured to receive user input from a user of the user device regarding the WLAN; and is
Wherein the ranking manager is configured to consider the user input in determining at least one or more of:
the connection performance data satisfies the at least one criterion, and
the recommender performance data satisfies the at least one criterion.
25. The user equipment of claim 23 or 24, further comprising:
the processor and computer-readable storage medium include instructions for implementing an application; and is
Wherein the processor and computer-readable storage medium receive the current wireless network recommendation from the application.
26. The user equipment of claim 25, further comprising the application using the wireless connection with the WLAN.
27. The user equipment of any of claims 23-26, wherein the connection performance data comprises at least one of:
signal quality information at the disconnection;
data rate information at disconnection;
a disconnection parameter indicating one of a number of predefined reasons for disconnection from the WLAN by a parameter value of the disconnection parameter;
a disconnection parameter indicating one of a number of predefined reasons for a disconnection from the WLAN and whether the reason for the disconnection is expected or unexpected by a parameter value of the disconnection parameter;
restriction information of a Basic Service Set Identifier (BSSID) size;
connection duration information; or
Wireless network connection information.
28. The user equipment of claim 27, wherein the signal quality information at disconnection comprises a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal detected by the classification manager.
29. The user equipment of any of claims 23-28, wherein the connection performance data comprises a Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) signal and the criteria comprises an RSSI threshold detected by the ranking manager.
30. The user equipment of any of claims 23-29, wherein the connection performance data comprises data rate information and the criterion comprises a data rate threshold of a signal detected by the classification manager.
31. The user equipment of any one of claims 23-30,
wherein the recommender performance data comprises at least one or more of:
information about the frequency of previous successful connections to the WLAN, and
information about previous use of the WLAN after a successful connection; and wherein the criteria include at least one or more of:
a threshold for successful connection, and
the network advises the entity of a threshold for use of successful connections.
32. The user equipment of any of claims 23-31, further comprising the ratings manager configured to cause the user equipment to:
collecting additional connection performance data and advisor performance data while the wireless connection is active; and is
Storing the additional connection performance data and recommender performance data.
33. The user equipment of any of claims 23-32, wherein the stored recommender performance data comprises at least one or more of:
information about the frequency of previous successful connections to the WLAN; and
information on previous use of the WLAN after successful connection.
Applications Claiming Priority (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
PCT/US2019/012105 WO2020142097A1 (en) | 2019-01-02 | 2019-01-02 | Selecting a wireless network connection |
Publications (1)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN113170388A true CN113170388A (en) | 2021-07-23 |
Family
ID=65244615
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201980079882.6A Pending CN113170388A (en) | 2019-01-02 | 2019-01-02 | Selecting a wireless network connection |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US20220007438A1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN113170388A (en) |
DE (1) | DE112019006542T5 (en) |
WO (1) | WO2020142097A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
GB2547502B (en) * | 2016-11-10 | 2018-05-02 | Tanktwo Oy | Detection of false reporting in a smart battery system |
JP7288981B2 (en) * | 2019-06-19 | 2023-06-08 | ヴェニアム，インコーポレーテッド | Intelligent steering of traffic to public and private WI-FI hotspots, e.g. cloud-based in networks of moving objects, including autonomous vehicles |
US11758515B2 (en) * | 2020-12-29 | 2023-09-12 | Verizon Patent And Licensing Inc. | Optimized user equipment network access selection |
US11973548B2 (en) | 2022-02-03 | 2024-04-30 | T-Mobile Usa, Inc. | Adjusting a configuration of a wireless telecommunication network |
US20240089321A1 (en) * | 2022-09-09 | 2024-03-14 | International Business Machines Corporation | Accessing vehicles by edge collaboration |
Family Cites Families (20)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20070147317A1 (en) * | 2005-12-23 | 2007-06-28 | Motorola, Inc. | Method and system for providing differentiated network service in WLAN |
US8010105B2 (en) * | 2006-05-19 | 2011-08-30 | Research In Motion Limited | System and method for facilitating accelerated network selection using a weighted network list |
CN101141782B (en) * | 2006-09-07 | 2012-08-29 | 日电（中国）有限公司 | Access point auxiliary fast handover method, equipment and system |
US20090124284A1 (en) * | 2007-11-14 | 2009-05-14 | Shimon Scherzer | System and method for providing seamless broadband internet access to web applications |
US20100159948A1 (en) * | 2008-12-19 | 2010-06-24 | Taproot Systems, Inc. | Adaptive Networking For Power Savings |
US8570993B2 (en) * | 2010-05-20 | 2013-10-29 | At&T Mobility Ii Llc | Wi-Fi intelligent selection engine |
US9144009B2 (en) * | 2011-05-18 | 2015-09-22 | Alcatel Lucent | Method and apparatus for controlling wireless access selection |
US9801118B2 (en) * | 2012-03-16 | 2017-10-24 | T-Mobile Usa, Inc. | WLAN discovery and notification |
US10368255B2 (en) * | 2017-07-25 | 2019-07-30 | Time Warner Cable Enterprises Llc | Methods and apparatus for client-based dynamic control of connections to co-existing radio access networks |
US9414301B2 (en) * | 2013-04-26 | 2016-08-09 | Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) | Network access selection between access networks |
EP3050364B1 (en) * | 2013-09-27 | 2017-11-29 | Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) | Managing selection of wlan |
US9763159B2 (en) * | 2014-04-23 | 2017-09-12 | Mediatek Singapore Pte. Ltd. | Dynamic algorithms for WLAN-cellular performance estimation, access selection, and traffic offload |
WO2015180134A1 (en) * | 2014-05-30 | 2015-12-03 | Apple Inc. | Methods and apparatus to reuse wireless circuitry for multiple subscriber identities in a wireless communication device |
EP3216255B1 (en) * | 2014-11-04 | 2018-09-19 | Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) | Analysis of connection patterns in a communication network |
US20160345229A1 (en) * | 2015-05-22 | 2016-11-24 | Qualcomm Incorporated | Wlan and wwan cooperative support of wwan functionality |
US9913307B2 (en) * | 2015-12-14 | 2018-03-06 | Qualcomm Incorporated | TDLS setup control from access point |
CN110115067B (en) * | 2016-03-31 | 2023-06-20 | 艾锐势有限责任公司 | Fast-propagating operation information for WLAN management |
US10321344B2 (en) * | 2017-02-17 | 2019-06-11 | Cisco Technology, Inc. | System and method to facilitate troubleshooting and predicting application performance in wireless networks |
US10750028B2 (en) * | 2017-06-29 | 2020-08-18 | Textnow, Inc. | Mobile communications with quality of service |
US20190059048A1 (en) * | 2017-08-17 | 2019-02-21 | Telekom Malaysia Berhad | System for selecting wireless local area network (wlan) in lte-wlan aggregation (lwa) |
-
2019
- 2019-01-02 US US17/311,984 patent/US20220007438A1/en active Pending
- 2019-01-02 CN CN201980079882.6A patent/CN113170388A/en active Pending
- 2019-01-02 DE DE112019006542.4T patent/DE112019006542T5/en active Pending
- 2019-01-02 WO PCT/US2019/012105 patent/WO2020142097A1/en active Application Filing
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
DE112019006542T5 (en) | 2021-09-23 |
WO2020142097A1 (en) | 2020-07-09 |
US20220007438A1 (en) | 2022-01-06 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN113170388A (en) | Selecting a wireless network connection | |
US11064422B2 (en) | System and method for enabling subscriber-based policy decisions | |
US20140092833A1 (en) | Method and apparatus for autonomous cluster head selection for machine-type-communications (mtc) | |
US20180115924A1 (en) | Dynamic Exchange Of Wireless Communication Services | |
US9832682B2 (en) | Distributed policy architecture | |
EP3879882B1 (en) | Method and apparatus for offloading traffic from cellular to wlan using assistance information | |
US20140071854A1 (en) | System and Methods for Dual Mode Network Selection | |
EP3162125A1 (en) | Systems, methods and devices for small cell activation and detection | |
US10440622B2 (en) | WLAN offloading using offload preference indication information | |
JP2023052736A (en) | Adaptive public land mobile network management for varying network state | |
TWI722632B (en) | Method and user equipment ofcell selection and cell reselection in new radio unlicensed | |
US11129092B2 (en) | Application specific location discovery | |
US9967775B2 (en) | Transmitting an offloadable APN via a broadcast signaling method | |
US20220159565A1 (en) | Method and apparatus for node selection in integrated access and backhaul network | |
US11910475B2 (en) | Systems and methods for enabling efficient establishment of policy control associations | |
US9301245B2 (en) | Toll path routing protocol | |
US20220322194A1 (en) | Sidelink Relay Selection and Re-Selection in Wireless Communication | |
US20180332526A1 (en) | Optimizing MuLTEfire Network Discovery | |
US20230397095A1 (en) | Radio Access Technology Management for Wireless Communications of Multi-Subscriber-Identification-Module (MSIM) Low Latency Hotspot Devices | |
WO2024011575A1 (en) | Systems and methods for conditional handover and extended reality capacity enhancements | |
CN111510265B (en) | Message sending and receiving method and device | |
CN112586040A (en) | Mobile network operator selection | |
GB2576555A (en) | Mobile network operator selection |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination |