CN105874449A - Systems and methods for extracting and generating images for display content - Google Patents
Systems and methods for extracting and generating images for display content Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN105874449A CN105874449A CN201380081946.9A CN201380081946A CN105874449A CN 105874449 A CN105874449 A CN 105874449A CN 201380081946 A CN201380081946 A CN 201380081946A CN 105874449 A CN105874449 A CN 105874449A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- image
- content
- text
- landing resource
- resource
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06T—IMAGE DATA PROCESSING OR GENERATION, IN GENERAL
- G06T1/00—General purpose image data processing
- G06T1/20—Processor architectures; Processor configuration, e.g. pipelining
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/50—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor of still image data
- G06F16/51—Indexing; Data structures therefor; Storage structures
Abstract
Systems and methods for automatically generating display content are provided. A uniform resource locator identifying a landing resource is received from a third-party content provider. One or more images are extracted from the landing resource. The extracted images are analyzed to detect the visual content and semantic content thereof. The extracted images are scored based on at least one of the detected visual content and the detected semantic content. The highest-scoring image is selected from a set of images that includes the images extracted from the landing resource. A third-party content item that includes the selected image is generated and served to a user device. The third-party content item is configured to direct the user device to the landing resource.
Description
Background technology
In computerization content transmission network, third party content supplier is commonly designed and provides
It is delivered in the display of subscriber equipment for the one or more content time slots via e-sourcing
Hold (such as showing advertisement).Display content can include such as image, video, figure, literary composition
Basis and/or other visual pattern.Third party content supplier creates in effective and attracting display
Appearance is probably difficult and challenging.
Various templates and stock's element have been used to partly make establishment show, and the process of content is automatic
Change.But, it is out-of-date, no that the display content created from rigid template and stock's element may often be such that
Attracting and be not well suited for display content in show specific enterprise, product or clothes
Business.
Summary of the invention
One embodiment of the disclosure is the computerization side for automatically generating display content
Method.The method is performed by processing circuit.The method is included at process circuit from third party content
Supplier receives URL.(landing) is landed in this URL identification
Resource.The method also includes, from landing Resource Access image, analyzing the image extracted to detect figure
The vision content of picture and the semantic content of image, based on the vision content detected with detected
Image is marked by least one in semantic content, from the figure included from landing Resource Access
One group of image of picture selects higher assessment partial image, and generates and include the of selected image
Tripartite's content item.This third party content project is configured to point at landing resource.
In some embodiments, the method also includes that the result based on analyzing determines that image is
No needs processes；And process this image to strengthen image in response to the determination of needs process
At least one in the vision content detected and the semantic content detected of image.
In some embodiments, include determining showing for image from landing Resource Access image
Work property score value.The instruction of this significance score value is used for the image that display is extracted in landing resource
Salience.
In some embodiments, the method also includes collecting multiple figures from multiple different positions
Picture, the plurality of different position includes that landing resource and this landing resource are at same territory or son
Resource under territory and previously use in the content item being associated with third party content supplier
Image storage vault at least one.
In some embodiments, analyze the image extracted to include determining with detection vision content
The position of the notable object in image.In some embodiments, determine in image is the most right
The position of elephant include detect image COLOR COMPOSITION THROUGH DISTRIBUTION and detection image in notable object edge in
At least one.In some embodiments, the image extracted is analyzed to detect vision content
Position including the text determined in image.In some embodiments, the figure extracted is analyzed
As including generating the significance map for image with detection vision content.This significance map bag
Include the position of any text in the position of notable object in image and image.
In some embodiments, analyze the image extracted to include generating with detection semantic content
Describe one or more labels of the semantic content of image and the label of generation is stored as image
Attribute.
In some embodiments, analyze the image that extracted with detection vision content include based on
The position of the notable object represented in the picture determines whether to image is carried out cutting.At certain
In a little embodiments, process image include in response to image is carried out the determination of cutting and to figure
As carrying out cutting to strengthen the visual impact of notable object.
In some embodiments, the method also includes the one or more aesthetic spy identifying image
Levy and these one or more taste characteristics are applied to the image for mankind institute labelling as input
Preference and the algorithm ranking procedure that is trained to.This algorithm ranking procedure is configured to use aesthetic spy
Levy image preference based on mankind institute labelling and generate the quality score for image.
Another embodiment of the disclosure is a kind of system for automatically generating display content.
This system includes the process being configured to receive URL from third party content supplier
Circuit.This URL identification landing resource.This process circuit is further configured to
From landing Resource Access image, analyze the image extracted to detect vision content and the image of image
Semantic content, based at least in the vision content detected and the semantic content that detected
Individual image is marked, select from one group of image of the image included from landing Resource Access
Higher assessment partial image, and generate the third party content project including selected image.This is years old
Tripartite's content item is configured to point at landing resource.
In some embodiments, described process circuit is configured to come really based on the result analyzed
Determine image the need of process；And process this image to increase in response to the determination of needs process
In the strong vision content detected of image and the semantic content detected of image at least one
Individual.
In some embodiments, include determining showing for image from landing Resource Access image
Work property score value.The instruction of this significance score value is used for the image that display is extracted in landing resource
Salience.
In some embodiments, described process circuit is configured to receive from multiple different positions
Collecting multiple image, the plurality of different position includes that landing resource and this landing resource are same
Resource under one territory or subdomain and previously at the content item being associated with third party content supplier
At least one in the storage vault of the image used in mesh.
In some embodiments, analyze the image extracted to include determining with detection vision content
Notable object in image and the position of at least one in the text in image.Implement at some
In mode, analyze the image that extracted with detection vision content include generating for image notable
Property map.In notable object in this significance Map recognition image and the text in image extremely
The position of few one.
In some embodiments, analyze the image extracted to include generating with detection semantic content
Describe one or more labels of the semantic content of image and the label of generation is stored as image
Attribute.
In some embodiments, analyze the image that extracted with detection vision content include based on
The position of the notable object represented in the picture determines whether to image is carried out cutting.At certain
In a little embodiments, process image include in response to image is carried out the determination of cutting and to figure
As carrying out cutting to strengthen the visual impact of notable object.
Another embodiment of the disclosure is a kind of for extracting and generating the figure for showing content
The system of picture.This system includes processing circuit, and it is configured to from including landing resource and at least
Multiple data sources of one other data source extract image.Process circuit and be further configured to inspection
Survey the distribution of content in each extracted image.This distribution of content includes the position of notable object
With at least one in the position of text.This process circuit is further configured to divide based on content
The result of cloth detection processes extracted image.Process the image that extracted include in response to
The notable object detected in image takies the determination less than the threshold area in image and to being carried
The image taken carries out cutting.This process circuit is further configured to be based at least partially on content
It is distributed the result of detection and the image extracted is carried out ranking.
In some embodiments, described process circuit is configured to calculate for from landing resource
Significance score value on the page of each image extracted.The instruction of this significance score value is used for landing
The salience of the image that display is extracted in resource.In some embodiments, to being extracted
Image carries out ranking and is based at least partially on for the page from each image of landing Resource Access
Upper significance score value.
Those skilled in the art is it will be recognized that summary of the invention is merely illustrative, and not purport
It is being restrictive by any way.Illustrating and combining below accompanying drawing carries out the most in this article
In description, as the equipment as herein described being only defined by the claims and/or the other side of process,
Inventive features and advantage will become clear from.
Accompanying drawing explanation
Fig. 1 be according to described embodiment include network, content requestor, landing resource,
The block diagram of the computer system of resource renderer and content generation system.
Fig. 2 is the content generation system illustrating Fig. 1 in more detail according to described embodiment
Block diagram, it is shown that image module, color module, text module, font module and layout
Module.
Fig. 3 is the frame of the image module illustrating Fig. 2 in more detail according to described embodiment
Figure, it is shown that image zooming-out module, content detection module, image processing module and image row
Name module.
Fig. 4 is the frame of the color module illustrating Fig. 2 in more detail according to described embodiment
Figure, it is shown that Color Picking device and color scheme selector.
Fig. 5 is the frame of the text module illustrating Fig. 2 in more detail according to described embodiment
Figure, it is shown that comment localizer, emotion detector and text selecting device.
Fig. 6 is the block diagram of the layout modules illustrating Fig. 2 in more detail according to described embodiment,
Show layout generator and layout scorer.
Fig. 7 be according to described embodiment can by Fig. 6 layout generator generate " half is right
Half layout " figure.
Fig. 8 is the " text that can be generated by the layout generator of Fig. 6 according to described embodiment
Cover " figure of layout.
Fig. 9 is " can be tilted by what the layout generator of Fig. 6 generated according to described embodiment
Text " figure of layout.
Figure 10 is " can be obscured by what the layout generator of Fig. 6 generated according to described embodiment
Image " figure of layout.
Figure 11 A be according to described embodiment can by Fig. 6 layout generator generate flexible
The figure of layout, it is shown that higher assessment partial image and unused storage space.
Figure 11 B is the figure of the flexible topology shown in Figure 11 A according to described embodiment, not
Space is used to be divided into multiple rectangle.
Figure 11 C be according to described embodiment some rectangle is combined into bigger " laterally
Style " figure of the flexible topology shown in Figure 11 B after rectangle.
Figure 11 D be according to described embodiment some rectangle is combined into bigger " vertical
Style " figure of the flexible topology shown in Figure 11 B after rectangle.
Figure 12 A be according to described embodiment be applied to include image, title text and not
Use the spirit that can be generated of " banner style " content item in space by the layout generator of Fig. 6
The figure of layout of living.
Figure 12 B is " the banner style " that be applied to shown in Figure 12 A according to described embodiment
The figure of the flexible topology of content item, unused storage space is divided into multiple rectangle.
Figure 13 is the process for automatically generating display content according to described embodiment
Flow chart.
Figure 14 is the literary composition for automatically generating display content items according to described embodiment
The flow chart of the process of this part or plain text content item.
Figure 15 be according to described embodiment for based on from the image of landing Resource Access, literary composition
Originally, color and font generate the process of the layout seeming uniqueness for content item
Flow chart.
Figure 16 be according to described embodiment for extract and generate the figure for showing content
The flow chart of the process of picture.
Detailed description of the invention
Usually with reference to accompanying drawing, it is shown that using for extraction and generation according to described embodiment
System and method in the image of display content.System and method as herein described can be used to automatically
Ground generates and is suitable for specific third party content supplier and/or the third party content of specific landing resource
Project.From landing Resource Access image and other visual information (such as color, text, figure,
Font, style etc.) and be used for generating the third party content project being associated with resource of landing.
Such as, this image and other visual information can be used to hand over the user with third party content project
Generate time (such as, click on content project, hovering etc. on content item) mutually and point to investment from the mainland
The third party content project in source (such as, via embedded hyperlink).
In operation, generate system according to content of this disclosure to receive from third party content supplier
URL (URL).This URL identifies the certain electric of referred to herein as landing resource
Child resource (such as, webpage).URL can be submitted to content and generate by third party content supplier
System generates the third party content project (such as, display advertisement) pointing to landing resource as request
The part of request.This content generation system uses URL to navigate to landing resource and from that
In extract image and other visual information.
In some embodiments, content generation system analysis from the image of landing Resource Access with
The vision content of detection image.Detection vision content can include such as determining and represent in the picture
The position of notable object, determines the position of text in image, and/or determines that image is the most permissible
Cropped or process with the visual impact improving image.In some embodiments, content generates
Systematic analysis from the image of landing Resource Access with detect image semantic content.In detection is semantic
Appearance can include such as identifying the implication that the object described in image or image are passed on.Can make
The label or the keyword that describe the semantic content of image are associated with image, and it is used for determining image
Dependency with specific third party content project.
In some embodiments, content generation system processes image.Image procossing can include
Image is carried out cutting with emphasize notable object or remove text, image is redefined size,
By image formatting, or image is additionally made to be ready to be included in third party content project.?
In some embodiment, image procossing includes strengthening emblem logo image.
Image can each attribute based on image be filtered and ranking by content generation system.Example
As, may filter that and have less than the display size of threshold value display size or less than threshold quality score value
The image of quality score.Based on the significance score value being associated with each image, image can be arranged
Name.This significance score value may indicate that the salience for showing extracted image in landing resource.
Content generation system may select one or more top ranked image to be included in display content item
In mesh.
In some embodiments, content generation system the content item created is advertisement.Should
Advertisement can be display advertisement, such as image ad, flash advertisement, video ads, based on literary composition
This advertisement or its any combination.In other embodiments, content generation system can use next life
Become to serve other type of content (such as, content of text, the display of various non-advertising goal
Content etc.).
With reference now to Fig. 1, it is shown that according to the frame of the computer system 100 of described embodiment
Figure.Computer system 100 is shown as including network 102, content requestor 104, landing resource
106, subscriber equipment 108, resource renderer 110, data storage device 112 and content are raw
One-tenth system 114.Computer system 100 can promote content generation system 114 and content requestor
Communication between 104.Such as, content generation system 114 can be via network 102 from content requests
Person 104 receives content and generates request.Content generation system 114 may be in response to this request and creates
Content item also provides the content item generated for comment or approval to content requestor 104.
Computer system 100 may additionally facilitate content generation system 114, landing resource 106 and money
Communication between source renderer 110.Such as, content generation system 114 can be from landing resource 106
And/or resource renderer 110 receives visual information.Such as, receiving for content generation
During request, content generation system 114 can call resource renderer 110 with from landing resource 106
Obtain (such as downloading) rendering data.Resource renderer 110 can via network 102 from
Investment from the mainland source 106 receives data, and is that snapshot image (such as, lands by such data render
The visual representation of resource 106) and/or document object model (DOM) tree.The number that can will render
It is sent to content generation system 114 from resource renderer 110 according to via network 102.
Network 102 can include any kind of computer network, such as LAN (LAN),
Wide area network (WAN), cellular network, satellite network, radio net, the Internet or appoint
What other type of data network.Network 102 can include being configured to transmit, receive or relay
Any number of calculating equipment (such as, computer, server, router, the network of data
Switch etc.).Network 102 may also include any number of hardwired and/or wireless connections.Example
As, content requestor 104 can be hard-wired (such as, via fiber optic cables, CAT5 cable
Deng) to network 102 calculate equipment transceiver carry out radio communication (such as, via WiFi,
Honeycomb, radio etc.).
Again referring to Fig. 1, computer system 100 is shown as including content requestor 104.Content please
The person of asking 104 can include the one or more realities receiving from it generating the request of content item
Body.Such as, content requestor 104 can include that advertiser, advertisement agency, third party content carry
Donor, publisher, web site provider or can receive from it generating content item
Other entity any of request.
In some embodiments, content requestor 104 includes can submitting to for content generation
One or more electronic equipments (such as, computer, computer system, server of request
Deng).Content requestor 104 can include that user can generate the user of request by its input content
Input equipment (such as, keyboard, mouse, mike, touch screen, panel computer, Intelligent electric
Words etc.).Content requestor 104 can be via network 102 in content generation system 114 be submitted to
Hold the request of generation.In some embodiments, content generation request includes URL
(URL).URL may specify specific landing resource (in such as, landing resource 106)
Position.
In some embodiments, content requestor 104 is submitted to content generation system 114 and is lived
Dynamic parameter.This movement parameter can be used in the third party controlling to be produced by content generation system 114
The distribution of appearance project.Keyword that this movement parameter can include being associated with third party content project,
Corresponding to the bid of keyword, content distribution budget, geographical limiter or generated system by content
System 114 or discrete content servers are used for determining when to present third party content to subscriber equipment
Other criterion of project is associated.
Content requestor 104 accessible content generates system 114 to monitor according to the activity set up
The performance of the third party content project of parameter distribution.Such as, in content requestor 104 may have access to
Hold generation system 114 relevant to third party content project or third party content project set with comment
One or more behaviors tolerance of connection.It is relative that behavior tolerance can describe between subscriber equipment 108
(such as, flash in distributed third party content project or the mutual of third party content project set
(impression) number, click number, number of transition, cost number etc.).Behavior degree
Amount can based on Accounting system or journal file processing system record the user action processed.
Again referring to Fig. 1, computer system 100 is shown as including landing resource 106.Landing resource
106 can include any kind of information or the data structure that can be provided by network 102.At certain
In a little embodiments, can be by the resource address (such as, URL) being associated with landing resource 106
Identify landing resource 106.Landing resource 106 can include webpage (such as, html web page,
PHP webpage etc.), word processing file, Portable Document format (PDF) document, image,
Video, programmed element, interactive content, stream video/audio-source or other type of e-mail
Breath.
Landing resource 106 can be webpage, local resource, intranet resources, internet resource
Or other Internet resources.In some embodiments, landing resource 106 includes when equipment 108
When interacting with the content item generated by content generation system 114, subscriber equipment 108 is directed
One or more webpages to (such as, via embedded hyperlink).At some embodiment
In, landing resource 106 provide about generate content item in show product, service or
The additional information of enterprise.Such as, landing resource 106 can be bought by it and generate
The product shown in content item or the website of service.
In some embodiments, landing resource 106 can be appointed as using by content requestor 104
To generate a part for the request of content item.Can be appointed as landing resource 106 pointing to and land
In resource 106 one or the URL of the other position specifying landing resource 106.Can will be somebody's turn to do
URL includes the part generating request for content.In some embodiments, can be by investment from the mainland
Source 106 is combined with content requestor 104.Such as, landing resource 106 can include being stored in one
On individual or multiple electronic equipment (such as, computer, server etc.) by content requestor 104
The data safeguarded.In other embodiments, landing resource 106 can be with content requestor 104
Separate.Such as, landing resource 106 can include being stored in remote server (such as, FTP clothes
Business device, file-sharing server, web server), the combination of server is (such as, in data
The heart, cloud computing platform etc.) or other data storage device separate with content requestor 104 on
Data.
Again referring to Fig. 1, computer system 100 is shown as including subscriber equipment 108.Subscriber equipment
The 108 operable electronic equipments of user that can include any number and/or type.Such as, Yong Hushe
Standby 108 can include desk computer, laptop computer, smart phone, panel computer, shifting
Dynamic communication equipment, remote work station, client terminal, entertainment console or can be with calculating
Interact any other of (such as, via communication interface) of other parts of machine system 100 sets
Standby.Subscriber equipment 108 may be able to receive that from landing resource 106 resource content and/or by
The third party content project that content generation system 114 generates.Subscriber equipment 108 can include mobile
Equipment or non-mobile device.
In some embodiments, subscriber equipment 108 includes for digital content is converted into use
Application (such as, the web-browsing of family comprehensible format (such as, vision, audition, figure etc.)
Device, resource renderer etc.).Subscriber equipment 108 can include for presenting content to user, connect
Receive user's input or promote mutual with the user of digital content (such as, click on content project,
Hovering etc. on content item) user interface element (such as, electronic displays, speaker,
Keyboard, mouse, mike, printer etc.).Subscriber equipment 108 may act as allowing use
The user agent of family viewing HTML encoded content.
Subscriber equipment 108 can include that can process embedding information (such as, is embedded in hyperlink
Metamessage etc.) and perform embed instruction processor.Embed instruction can include with within it in
Computer-readable instruction (such as, the software that the content time slot of existing third party content project is associated
Code,Deng).
In some embodiments, subscriber equipment 108 can detect and distributed content project
Alternately.With content item can include alternately display content items, on content item hover,
Click on content project, viewing are for the source information of content item or subscriber equipment 108 and content
Between project any other type of alternately.Mutual with content item does not require that user is relative
In the clear and definite action of specific content item purpose.In some embodiments, flash and (such as, show
Or present content item) can be qualified as alternately.For defining which user action (such as,
Active or passive) being qualified as mutual criterion can be by content requestor 104 or by interior
Hold generation system 114 to determine (such as, for each content item) individually.
Subscriber equipment 108 can generate multiple user action.Such as, subscriber equipment 108 can respond
In detect with the mutual of content item and generate user action.This user action can include many
Individual attribute, including content designator (such as content ID or signature element), device identifier,
Quote other attribute any that URL identifier, timestamp and description are mutual.Subscriber equipment 108
Can (such as, resource viewing, on-line purchase, search be looked into being performed specific action by subscriber equipment
Ask submission etc.) time generate user action.The user action generated by subscriber equipment 108 can be passed
Deliver to content generation system 114 or independent Accounting system.
For the systematic collection the most here discussed about the personal information of user or available
For the situation of personal information, control program can be provided the user or whether feature can collect user
Information is (such as, about the social networks of user, social action or activity, occupation, user
The information of the current location of preference or user) or control whether and/or how to connect from content server
Receipts may be more relevant with user the chance of content.It addition, can be stored in some data or be made
With in one or more modes, it being processed (such as, by content generation system 114) before,
The recognizable information of individual is removed.Such as, the identity of user can be processed so that for
Not can determine that the recognizable information of individual for family, or can incite somebody to action in the case of obtaining positional information
The geographical position generalization (such as arriving city, ZIP code or state level) of user so that can not
Determine the ad-hoc location of user.Therefore, user can control information how to be collected (such as, by
Apply, by subscriber equipment 108 etc.) and used by content generation system 114.
Again referring to Fig. 1, system 100 is shown as including resource renderer 110.Resource renderer
110 can be can to explain landing resource 106 and create its visual representation (such as image, display
Deng) hardware or software part.Such as, (such as, landing resource 106 can include labelling content
HTML, XML, image URL etc.) and formatted message (such as, CSS, XSL etc.).
Resource renderer 110 can download labelling content and formatted message and according to World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C) standard renders landing resource 106.Resource renderer 110 can create landing resource 106
" snapshot image " and/or structure represent landing resource 106 DOM Document Object Model (DOM)
Tree.
Snapshot image can be the visual representation of specific landing resource 106.Snapshot image can illustrate
Go out after rendering landing resource 106 at user interface facilities (such as, electronic display, meter
Calculation machine monitor, touch-sensitive display etc.) on the visual appearance of landing resource 106 that presents.Hurry up
According to image can include color information for resource 106 of landing (such as, pixel color, brightness,
Saturation etc.) and style information (such as, corner, round edge, modern times, rural area etc.).At certain
In a little embodiments, snapshot image can be to have any feasible file extent (such as,
Jpg .png .bmp etc.) picture file.
Dom tree can be the hierarchy model of specific landing resource 106.Dom tree can include using
In landing resource 106 image information (such as, image URL, display position, display size,
Alt text etc.), font information (such as, fontname, size, effect etc.), color information
(such as, RGB color value, hexadecimal color code etc.) and text message.
In various embodiments, resource renderer 110 can be content generation system 114 or
A part for separate part.Resource renderer 110 may be in response to from content generation system 114
Render request and prepare snapshot image and/or dom tree.Resource renderer 110 may be in response to
Render request and transmit snapshot image and/or dom tree to content generation system 114.
Again referring to Fig. 1, computer system 100 is shown as including data storage device 112.Data
Storage device 112 can be can store profile data, content item data, account data or
Person by content generation system 114 or computer system 110 another parts use any other
Any kind of memory devices of the data of type.Data storage device 112 can include any
The nonvolatile memory of type, medium or memory devices.Such as, data storage device 112
Semiconductor memory devices (such as, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory device etc.) can be included
Disk (such as, internal hard drive, moveable magnetic disc etc.), magneto-optic disk and/or CD ROM and
DVD-ROM dish.
In some embodiments, data storage device 112 at content generation system 114,
Investment from the mainland source 106 or content requestor 104 are local.In other embodiments, data storage sets
Standby 112 is to be connected with content generation system 114 and/or content requestor 104 via network 102
Remote data storage device.In some embodiments, data storage device 112 is can
Receive from content generation system 114 and/or the inquiry of content requestor 104 and it is rung
The data storage server answered or a part for system.
In some embodiments, data storage device 112 is configured to store from landing resource
106 visual informations extracted.Such as, data storage device 112 can store in landing resource
The view data of the various images of display on 106.(such as, view data can include real image
Image file), the URL position of image, image attributes, image metadata or in landing resource
Other quality of the image of display on 106.
Data storage device 112 can be configured to store and combines what content requestor 104 used
Previous contents project.Previous contents project can include the content item provided by content requestor 104
Mesh, the content item created for content requestor 104 by content generation system 114, previously
Other of the image used by content requestor 104 or ratify and/or the content item being previously generated
Ingredient.Data storage device 112 could be for the page extracted from landing resource 106
Epigraph, previously used by content requestor 104 or the image ratified and/or not from landing resource
106 image repository of other image extracted or ratified by content requestor 104.
Again referring to Fig. 1, computer system 100 is shown as including content generation system 114.Content
Generation system 114 can be configured to from landing resource 106 extract visual information (such as, image,
Color, text, font, style etc.).Content generation system 114 can analyze the image of extraction
To detect its vision content and semantic content.Such as, content generation system 114 can determine that extraction
Distribution of content (such as, the position etc. of the position of notable object, text) in image with figure
As representing that what qualitative description (such as, the brand etc. of car category, footwear) carrys out labelling and carried
The image taken.Content generation system 114 can process extraction image (such as, cutting, enhancing,
Optimization, formatting etc.) and select image to use in third party content project.Content is raw
One-tenth system 114 can create and includes the third party content project of selected image and will be created
Third party content project is distributed to subscriber equipment 108.It is more fully described content raw with reference to Fig. 2
One-tenth system 114.
With reference now to Fig. 2, according to described embodiment, it is shown that illustrate content in more detail
The block diagram of generation system 114.Content generation system 114 is shown as including communication interface 202 He
Process circuit 204.Communication interface 202 can include for performing with Local or Remote equipment or system
The wired or wireless interface of data communication (such as, jack, antenna, transmitter, receiver,
Transceiver, conductor terminal, ethernet port, WiFi transceiver etc.).Such as, communication interface
202 can allow content generation system 114 and content requestor 104, resource 106, subscriber equipment
108, other component communication of resource renderer 110 and computer system 100.
Process circuit 204 and be shown as including processor 206 and memorizer 208.Can be by processor
206 be embodied as general processor, special IC (ASIC), one or more scene can
At programming gate array (FPGA), CPU, GPU, processing component group or other suitable electronics
Reason parts.
Memorizer 208 can include for storing data and/or computer code so as to complete and/or
Promote one or more equipment (examples of the various processes, layer and the module that describe in the disclosure
As, RAM, ROM, flash memory, hard-disc storage etc.).Memorizer 208 can include that volatibility is deposited
Reservoir or nonvolatile memory.Memorizer 208 can include database element, object code portion
Part, script parts or for supporting the various activities that describe in the disclosure and message structure
Any other type of message structure.In some embodiments, memorizer 208 is via process
Circuit 204 is communicatively connected to processor 206 and includes for performing one or many as herein described
The computer code (such as, being stored in the data module in memorizer 208) of individual process.Letter
For it, memorizer 208 be shown as including resource renderer modules 210, image module 212,
Color module 214, text module 216, font module 218 and layout modules 220.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including resource renderer modules 210.At some
In embodiment, resource renderer modules 210 rather than external resource render service (such as,
Resource renderer 110) perform resource and render.Resource renderer modules 210 can include such as reference
The function of the resource renderer 110 described in Fig. 1.Such as, resource renderer modules 210 may
Landing resource 106 can be explained and create its visual representation (such as, image, display etc.).
Resource renderer modules 210 can use URL or provide by content requestor 104 other
Designator identifies a specific landing resource part as the request in order to generate content item.
(such as, resource renderer modules 210 can read and explain labelling content from landing resource 106
HTML, XML, image URL etc.) and formatted message (such as, CSS, XSL etc.)
And render landing resource 106 (such as, according to W3C standard).Resource renderer modules 210
Snapshot image and/or the DOM of structure expression landing resource 106 of landing resource 106 can be created
Tree.
Snapshot image can be the visual representation of identified landing resource 106.Snapshot image can
Illustrate after rendering landing resource 106 user interface facilities (such as, electronic display,
Computer monitor, touch-sensitive display etc.) on the visual appearance of landing resource 106 that presents.
Snapshot image can include color information for resource 106 of landing (such as, pixel color, bright
Degree, saturation etc.) and style information (such as, corner, round edge, modern times, rural area etc.).
In some embodiments, snapshot image can be to have any feasible file extent (such as,
Jpg .png .bmp etc.) picture file.
Dom tree can be the hierarchy model of identified landing resource 106.Dom tree can wrap
Include image information (such as, image URL, display position, the display for resource 106 of landing
Size, alt text etc.), font information (such as, fontname, size, effect etc.), color
Multimedia message (such as, RGB color value, hexadecimal color code etc.) and text message.Resource
Renderer modules 210 snapshot image and/or dom tree can be stored in memorizer 208 for
Other module of content generation system 114 uses subsequently.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including image module 212.Image module 212
Can be configured to extract image from landing resource 106.Such as, image module 212 can resolve use
Dom tree in landing resource 106 (such as, is schemed to identify and to extract image and image metadata
As URL, display position, display size, alt text etc.).This image metadata can be used to really
Fixed significance on the page of each image of display in landing resource 106.Real at some
Executing in mode, image module 212 is from other data source (such as, previously used or figure of approval
The storage vault of picture, the storage vault etc. of stock's image) extract image and image metadata.
Image module 212 can analyze extracted image to detect the vision content of image.Detection
Vision content can include the position such as determining the notable object represented in the picture, determines image
In the position of text and/or determine that image whether can be cropped or process to improve regarding of image
Feel and impact.In some embodiments, image module 212 analyzes the image extracted to detect figure
The semantic content of picture.Detection semantic content can include such as identifying the object described in image or
The implication that image is passed on.Image module 212 can describe the one of its semantic content to image distribution
Individual or multiple label or keyword.This label and/or keyword may be used to determine image with specific
The dependency of third party content project.
Image module 212 can process image so that image is ready to make in third party content project
With.Image procossing can include image is carried out cutting with emphasize notable object or remove text, general
Image redefines size, by image formatting or additionally adjust image.Some embodiment party
In formula, image module 212 identifies and strengthens emblem logo image.
Image can each attribute based on image be filtered and ranking by image module 212.Figure
As module 212 can determine that significance score value in the quality score and/or the page of each image.
Quality score for image can indicate the aesthetic appearance of image based on various image attributes.Aobvious
Work property score value may indicate that the salience of the image extracted for display in landing resource 106.
Image module 212 can will have less than the display size of threshold value display size or less than threshold quality
The image of the quality score of score value abandons or filters.In some embodiments, image module 212
Can be based on the significance score value being associated with image by image ranking.Image module 212 may select
Top ranked one or more images are to be included in display content items.Come with reference to Fig. 3
It is more fully described image module 212.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including color module 214.Color module 214
The color scheme for showing content can be generated.Such as, in color module 214 is alternatively used for
The background of appearance project, title, description, button background and/or the color of button text.Color side
Case can include corresponding to one or more colors of the color of display in landing resource 106.
Color module 214 can use the snapshot image of landing resource 106 and/or dom tree to select
Select the color for content item.In some embodiments, color module 214 can use collection
Group's technology (such as, k-means cluster) extracts multiple color clusters from snapshot image.With reference to figure
4 are more fully described color module 214.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including text module 216.Text module 216
Can be configured to be automatically created third party content project textual portions (such as, text describe,
Title etc.).In various embodiments, text module 216 can be used to create display content item
Purpose textual portions or plain text content item.In some embodiments, text module 216
The dom tree or the snapshot image that use landing resource 106 create and show in landing resource 106
The summary of text.In some embodiments, text module 216 is from except landing resource 106
Outside or alternatively other data source retrieval text data.Such as, text module 216
Comment can be created from the user of enterprise, product or service and receive text data.Can be from allowing user
Put up in the above or submit to suggestion, comment or with specific enterprise, product or service relevant its
The internet resource (such as, website) of its text retrieves this comment.Landing resource 106 can be used
URL specify this type of position commented on and/or make text module 216 point to specific resources.
Text module 216 can include emotion detecting system, and it can be with or without numeral expression
Determine in the case of grading (such as, " in 51 ", " 4 star " etc.) that comment is front
Or it is negative.Emotion detecting system can resolve the language of comment, finds describing of instruction front
Word (such as, fabulous, good, fine, marvellous etc.).Emotion detecting system then optional or
Extract the relatively short segment of the comment including this type of front phrase to be included in the content of generation
In project.It is more fully described text module 216 with reference to Fig. 5.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including font module 218.Font module 218
Optional font or font family are to use in the content item generated.Some embodiment party
In formula, landing resource 106 can include such as HTML, CSS or XML font tag etc
Font information.Font module 218 can use the dom tree that renders for resource 106 of landing to carry
Take one or more font (such as, font face, font family etc.).Font module 218 can
Rendering dom tree or directly (such as, making from landing resource 106 from landing resource 106
By optical character recognition etc.) extract font information.
In some embodiments, the font of extraction is divided by font module 218 based on font size
From becoming multiple kinds.Such as, font module 218 can create and (such as, be more than for big font
20pt, more than 16pt etc.) the first kind and for the second species of relatively small font.
Font size can be extracted from landing resource 106 from the dom tree rendered or directly.At some
In embodiment, font module 218 selects multiple font or font family so that in third party
Appearance project uses.Such as, font module 218 may select the first font for use as generating
The Header font of content item and select descriptive for use as content item of the second font
Part or the font of button text.
Again referring to Fig. 2, memorizer 208 is shown as including component models 220.Layout modules 220
It is configured to selected text, image, color and font generate for content
The layout of project.Layout modules 220 can predefine layout options's (such as, formwork cloth from one group
Office) in select layout or generate new layout (such as, being not based on template).Layout modules
220 can display size based on the image selected by image module 212 and/or by text module 216
The length of the text selected generates layout.Image can be redefined size by layout modules 220
And/or adjust text to be suitable for selected layout or to adjust layout to be suitable for selected figure
Picture and/or text.
In some embodiments, layout modules 220 uses from regarding that landing resource 106 is extracted
Visual information determines style, enterprise's kind or the outward appearance for content item.Such as, layout mould
Block 220 can determine that landing resource 106 enterprise's kind (such as, fast food, auto parts and components etc.),
The style of landing resource 106 (such as, modern or rural area) and aobvious in landing resource 106
The use (such as, an angle of 90 degrees, fillet etc.) of the shape shown.Outside layout modules 220 can be called
Portion data base retrieves enterprise's kind of information with the URL based on landing resource 106.With reference to Fig. 6
It is more fully described layout modules 220.
With reference now to Fig. 3, it is shown that illustrate image in more detail according to described embodiment
The block diagram of module 212.Image module 212 is shown as including image zooming-out module 302, content inspection
Survey module 304, image processing module 306 and image ranking module 308.
Image zooming-out module 302 can be configured to carry from landing resource 106 and/or other data source
Take image.Such as, image zooming-out module 302 can receive from resource renderer 110 and be used for landing
The dom tree of resource 106.Image zooming-out module 302 can resolve dom tree to identify and to extract
Image and image metadata (such as, image URL, display position, display size, alt text
Deng).In some embodiments, image module 212 extracts image and figure from other data source
Pel data.
Image zooming-out module 302 can be shown as including from its other data source extracting image
Use image data base 310 and stock's image data base 312.Use the image data base 310 can
Being for pointing to the landing resource identical with the content item being currently generated 106 (such as, together
One URL, same territory etc.) previous contents project in the storage vault of all images that uses.?
Use image data base 310 can include the image that provided by content requestor 104 and/or the most
The image ratified by content requestor 104.To can use the image in image data base 310
Store together with additional data (such as, image metadata), this additional data such as with wherein
The keyword being associated including the previous third party content project of image and other data.
Stock's image data base 312 could be for not necessarily being associated with content requestor 104
Or from the storage vault of the multiple image that landing resource 106 is extracted.Stock's image data base 312
Can include from other Resource Access or the image that is additionally supplied to content generation system 114.
In some embodiments, the image during image zooming-out module 302 determines data base 310-312 with
The relevance score (such as, by comparison keyword etc.) of the content item being currently generated.?
In some embodiment, image zooming-out module 302 only is extracted to have from data base 310-312 and is exceeded
The image of the relevance score of relevance score threshold value.From use image data base 310 and/or
Stock's image data base 312 extract image can include such as enterprise's logo (such as, trade mark,
Service mark etc.), the picture of distinguishing products or other prominent image.
In some embodiments, image zooming-out module 302 uses image metadata to determine use
Significance on the page of each image of display in landing resource 106.Page for image
On face, significance may indicate that the importance associated for showing image in landing resource 106 or prominent
Going out property.Image zooming-out module 302 can extract each attribute of image, vertically putting of such as image
Put (such as, the top of the page, the centre of the page, the bottom etc. of the page), the display of image
Whether size (such as, display height, display width etc.), image be in landing resource 106
Occupy center, image peripheral vision mixed and disorderly and/or can be relevant with significance on the page other belong to
Property.
In some embodiments, image zooming-out module 302 extracts emblem logo image.Emblem logo image
Can be trade mark, enterprise's logo, Product Logo, Company Logo or with specific products, service
Or other image any that tissue is associated.In some embodiments, image zooming-out module 302
Inquiry data base 310-312 is to identify marking on a map in the emblem previously submitted to by content requestor 104 or ratify
Picture.In some embodiments, tissue database 310-312 can be carried out by URL or domain name, make
Obtaining can be easily by specifying URL retrieve logo information.Such as, image zooming-out module 302
The URL of landing resource 106 can be used to search for data base 310-312.At various embodiments
In, image zooming-out module 302 can be from extracting (such as, with URL) from landing resource 106
Image collection or from the image recognition emblem logo image being stored in data base 310-312.
In some embodiments, data base 310-312 can not comprise for resource 106 of landing
Or the logo information in the territory being associated with landing resource 106.When not having logo information can use,
Image zooming-out module 302 can attempt using other technology to identify emblem logo image.Implement at some
In mode, the image zooming-out module 302 image facing to investment from the mainland source 106 or with extraction is associated
Metasearch special logo labelling label.One example of special logo labelling label is:
<link rel=" example-logo-markup " href=" somepath/image.png ">
Wherein, use text string ' example-logo-markup ' as identifying emblem logo image
Keyword.In other embodiments, different text strings or keyword can be used.Can be based on
Territory that the URL of landing resource 106 is associated with landing resource 106 and landing resource 106
The business entity being associated or other criterion any are to select specific text strings or keyword.Can make
Potential emblem logo image is identified with any number of logo labelling keyword.Image zooming-out module 302
' href ' property value (such as, somepath/image.png) can be extracted as specifying potential emblem
The URL of the position of logo image.
In some embodiments, image zooming-out module 302 search graph pel data is (such as,
Html tag, URL, display position, display size, alt text, filename, file chi
Very little) to identify emblem logo image.Such as, image zooming-out module 302 can search for image file name,
The text string of the instruction emblem logo image in alt text or title attribute or keyword (such as, " emblem
Mark ").
Image zooming-out module 302 can generate from landing resource 106, use image data base 310
And/or stock's image data base 312 extract image list, gather or compile.Real at some
Execute in mode, (such as, the image extracted from landing resource 106 can be stored in image data base
Data storage device 112, memorizer 208 etc.) in.Can with for each image metadata and
Significance criterion (such as, as image URL, display position, display size, alt text,
Filename, document size etc.) store the image extracted in combination.Can use and be carried by image
The list and the information being associated with the image of each extraction that take the image that device 252 generates select
One or more images are to be included in the content item of generation.
Again referring to Fig. 3, image module 212 is shown as including content detection module 304.Content is examined
Survey module 304 to can be configured to analyze the image extracted by image zooming-out module 302 with detection figure
Various types of distribution of content (such as, text, notable object, face etc.) in Xiang, figure
The semantic content of picture and/or the aesthetic quality of image.
In some embodiments, content detection module 304 identifies image aobvious of each extraction
Show size.If the display size for image is less than threshold value display size, (such as, threshold value is high
Degree, threshold width, threshold area etc.), then the discardable image of content detection module 304.?
In some embodiment, content detection module 304 identifies indulging for each image extracted
Horizontal ratio.If for image aspect ratio not predefined aspect ratio range (such as, 0.2-5,
0.33-3,0.5-2 etc.) in, then the discardable image of content detection module 304.
Content detection module 304 is shown as including distribution of content detector 314, semantic content inspection
Survey device 316 and mass dete ctor 318.Distribution of content detector 314 can be configured to detect by
The position of content, size and/or distribution in the image that image zooming-out module 302 is extracted.Content
Distribution detector 314 can detect the distribution of various types of picture material, such as color, edge,
Face and text.
In some embodiments, distribution of content detector 314 is configured to the figure extracted
Notable object in Xiang positions.Notable object can be foreground object, feature object or
Other object shown highlightedly in the image extracted.In some embodiments, content
Distribution detector 314 analyzes the distribution of the color in image with by foreground object and backcolor district
Do not open.Edge in the recognizable image extracted of distribution of content detector 314 is to detect object
Border between (such as, foreground object, background object, side by side object etc.).To be the most right
Can be useful to the most meaningful or important area identifying image as differentiating with other object.
In some embodiments, distribution of content detector 314 is configured to what detection was extracted
Text in image.Distribution of content detector 314 can perform optical character to the image extracted
Identify (OCR) with detect various types of text (such as, title text, intention text,
Arouse action text, advertisement text etc.).Some image extracted itself can be to include it
The advertisement of the intention text of oneself.The recognizable image including text of distribution of content detector 314
Region so that the text can cropped or from image remove.
In some embodiments, distribution of content detector 314 generates the figure for each extraction
The significance map of picture.This significance map can text, face and/or prospect in labelling image
The position of object.Such as, can identify with rectangle list that there is the region of text or face.Can
Foreground area is represented with binary bitmap, line or boundary marker.Distribution of content detector 314
Can determine that the size relative to whole image of the notable object in image.If it is represented in image
Notable object compared with the display size of whole image be relatively small (such as, less than threshold value,
Certain percentage etc. less than total display size), distribution of content detector 314 this figure discardable
As or this image is included in the image list of the candidate of the content item of generation from being used for
Remove.
Again referring to Fig. 3, content detection module 304 is shown as including semantic content detector 316.
Semantic content detector 316 can be configured to analyze the image extracted by image zooming-out module 302
To detect the semantic content of image.Detection semantic content can include such as identifying in image to be described
Object or the implication passed on of image.Semantic content detector 316 can use visual search to take
Business (VSS), picture material annotation front end (ICAFE) and/or picture material annotation service (ICAS)
Determine the semantic content of image.This type of service can be configured to receive image (such as, image
URL, image file etc.), analyze image and output describes each of the content described in image
Plant label (such as, title, keyword, phrase etc.).Semantic content detector 316 can be by
Annotation of images becomes to use disparate modules (such as, logo module, product mould with search service configuration
Block etc.) keyword and label generated for input picture of refining.
Semantic content detector 316 can distribute label or keyword as its attribute or mark to image
Sign.Such as, for the image of Audi, semantic content detector 316 can divide to image
Join keyword " automobile ", " sport car ", " Audi ", " Audi R8VI 0 " or qualitative
Ground describes other keyword of the content of image.In some embodiments, semantic content detection
Device 316 can make each keyword or label accurate to the estimation of image with instruction keyword or label
The score value of degree or dependency is associated.This label and/or keyword can be by image ranking module 308
It is used for determining that image is relevant to specific third party content project, search inquiry and/or e-sourcing
Property.
Again referring to Fig. 3, content detection module 304 is shown as including mass dete ctor 318.Quality
Detector 318 may be configured to determine that the vision matter of the image extracted by image zooming-out module 302
Amount (such as, aesthetic quality).Visual quality for image can visual signature based on image
Represent the human vision preference for image, the exposure of described visual signature such as image,
Acutance, contrast, color scheme, color density and/or other aesthetic quality.
Mass dete ctor 318 can be by utilizing computer vision, cluster and the unit for image
Data determine visual quality with algorithmic approach.Such as, mass dete ctor 318 can use image
Or characteristics of image is as the ranking model being trained to the image preference for mankind institute labelling
Input.In some embodiments, mass dete ctor 318 by the feature of image with previously the most by
Mankind's scoring compares with the characteristics of image identifying the aesthetic or visual quality of image.Have and quilt
The mankind comment the image of the feature that the characteristics of image of high score more closely mates can be by mass dete ctor
The quality score that 318 distribution are higher.The feature that the characteristics of image that has and commented high score by the mankind is different
Image can be distributed relatively low quality score by mass dete ctor 318.
Again referring to Fig. 3, image module 212 is shown as including image processing module 306.At image
Reason module 306 can be configured to locate image that reason image zooming-out module 302 extracts so that image
It is ready to use in the content item.Image processing module 306 can receive by content detection module
The 304 content detection results generated are as input, and exportable processed image.Various
In embodiment, process image and can include image is carried out cutting, by image formatting, strengthen figure
Picture, removes text from image, or additionally adjusts image so that at the content item automatically generated
Mesh uses.Image processing module 306 is shown as including image clipper 320 and image enhaucament
Device 322.
Image clipper 320 can be configured to based on being detected by distribution of content detector 314
The distribution of picture material determines whether to the image of each extraction is carried out cutting.Such as, figure
As cropping tool 320 can use the significance map generated by distribution of content detector 314 to determine
Comprise notable object (such as, foreground object), text, face and/or other type of examined
The area of each image of the content surveyed.Can will comprise the figure of notable object, text and face
As part is expressed as rectangle in significance map.Image clipper 320 can use significance ground
Distribution of content indicated by figure identifies a part for each image to be kept and to be abandoned every
A part for individual image.
In some embodiments, image clipper 320 is configured to identification and comprises notable object
The part of each image.The position of the notable object in image can be by distribution of content detector
314 are expressed as a pair vector in significance map.Such as, rectangle in useable definition image
Vertical vector and horizontal vector indicate the position of notable object.Image clipper 320 can determine that
The size of the one or more rectangles comprising notable object in each image and position.For bag
For image containing multiple notable objects, image clipper 320 is optional to be kept the most right
One or more in notable object one or more He to be abandoned in as.Implement at some
In mode, image clipper 320 generates the rectangle comprising multiple notable object.By image cropping
The rectangle that device 320 generates can be to include that the minimum of multiple notable object may rectangle.
In some embodiments, image clipper 320 determines the rectangle phase comprising notable object
For the size of total display size of image (such as, as percentage ratio, the work of total display size
The ratio etc. of the gross area for image).In some embodiments, image clipper 320 is true
Surely edge (such as, top margin, base, side etc.) and the image of the rectangle of notable object are comprised
Edge between the amount in space.Such as, image clipper 320 is recognizable comprises notable object
Rectangle edge and image border between distance (such as, pixel count etc.).Image cropping
(such as, device 320 can determine that the distance between each edge and the respective edges of image of rectangle
Distance between top margin and the top margin of image of rectangle, between the base of rectangle and the base of image
Distance etc.).
Image clipper 320 size based on the notable object in image and position can determine and be
No image is carried out cutting.For each image, image clipper 320 can be based on image
Display size (such as, the 80% of display size, 60% of display size etc.) carrys out reference area
Threshold value.If the rectangle comprising notable object has the area exceeding area threshold, then image is cut out
Cut device 320 to can determine that and image should not carried out cutting.If the rectangle comprising notable object has
Less than the area of area threshold, then image clipper 320 can determine that reply image carries out cutting.
In some embodiments, if notable object takies the about one-third of the area less than image,
Then image clipper 320 determines that reply image carries out cutting.
Image clipper 320 can carry out cutting and not comprise some of notable object to remove image
Or all picture materials.Such as, image clipper 320 can carry out cutting to image so that only
The rectangle comprising notable object is had to stay.In some embodiments, image clipper 320 will
Image cropping becomes to include the border of notable object rectangle and this notable object rectangular circumference.
In some embodiments, image clipper 320 is configured to from image cropping text.
Image clipper 320 can use the significance map generated by distribution of content detector 314 to know
Do not include a part for each image of text.Such as, the recognizable instruction of image clipper 320
One or more rectangles of the position of the text in image.In some embodiments, image is cut out
Cut device 320 to determine based on the image area comprising notable object and the image area comprising text
A part for image to be kept.Such as, image clipper 320 can comprise the image of text
Part abandons, and keeps the image section comprising notable object simultaneously.Image clipper 320 can lead to
Crossing generation rectangle from image cropping text, this rectangle includes comprise notable object one or many
Individual rectangle and do not comprise the rectangle of text.In some embodiments, image clipper 320
Image cropping is become the picture material (example being only included in the rectangle generated by image clipper 320
As, notable object, face etc.).
In some embodiments, image clipper 320 is configured to from image frame cutting emblem
Logo image.Such as, image zooming-out module 302 some image extracted can be independent button
The combination of emblem logo image or compiling (such as, comprising the splicing canvas of multiple logo within a grid).
Image clipper 320 may be configured to determine that position the cutting of the emblem logo image in image frame
Image frame so that only emblem logo image stays.
Again referring to Fig. 3, image processing module 306 is shown as including image intensifier 322.Image
Booster 322 can be configured to strengthen or optimize the image that extracted by image zooming-out module 302 with
Just use in the content item generated.Strengthen or optimize the limit that image can include such as making image
Edge is circular, adds illuminating effect to image, adds texture or the degree of depth to image and/or applies it
Its effect strengthens the visual impact of image.
In some embodiments, image intensifier 322 uses and is produced by content detection module 304
Raw content detection result identifies emblem logo image.Some emblem logo image can be by image zooming-out module
302 extract as straight and simple logo.Such as, when logo is rendered by subscriber equipment 108,
Landing resource 106 can be dependent on CSS or another content-label scheme to change straight/simple logo
Outward appearance.Image intensifier 322 can process emblem logo image with by promoting logo to look like three
Dimension, add the degree of depth or illuminating effect, make that turning is circular, promote logo show as button,
Optimize logo so that display or the other logo that adjusts are to improve its visual impact on the mobile apparatus
Straight/simple logo is converted into optimization logo.Image processing module 306 can be by processed
Image stores in a data storage device.
Again referring to Fig. 3, image module 212 is shown as including image ranking module 308.Image is arranged
Name module 308 can be configured to which determining in image to be included within various image rankings with
In the content item generated.Image ranking module 308 is shown as including significance on the page and calculates
Device 324 and picture material evaluator 326.
On the page, significance computer 324 can be configured to based on in landing resource 106
Relative importance or the salience of display image are each to extracted by image zooming-out module 302
Image distribution significance score value.Such as, the significance score value for image can be depending on image
It is disposed vertically (such as, the top of the page, the centre of the page, the bottom etc. of the page), image
Display size (such as, display height, display width etc.), whether image in landing resource
Center and/or other saliency scoring criterion is occupy on 106.
The one of the saliency scoring algorithm that can be used by significance computer 324 on the page
Individual example is:
Salience=α * sigmoid1(positi0ny, y0, dy)+β*sigmoid2(width, w0, dsize)
*sigmoid2(height, h0, dsize)+δ*central_alignment
In some embodiments, α, β and δ are entirely positive and add up to 1.0.Sigmoid1
(positiony, y0, dy) can be that scope is from position positiony(such as, land in at=0 1.0
The type of resource 106) to positiony0.0 (the end of such as, landing resource 106 at=∞
Portion, hence it is evident that far and apart the top etc. in investment from the mainland source 106) sigmoid function.y0Can be in this place
The point of Sigmoid1=0.5, and dyThe slope of the sigmoid function around y0 can be controlled.Can be by
Sigmoid2It is defined as (1-Sigmoid1), and central_alignment can be that image is
The no tolerance at landing resource 106 Shang center alignment (such as, flatly occuping center).
If image ideally occupy center, then central_alignment can be 1.0, and it can
Distance between center based on image and the horizontal centre of landing resource 106 reduces.
The image ranking that picture material evaluator 326 can will be extracted by image zooming-out module 302.
In some embodiments, this ranking is based on the significance score value distributing to each image.Aobvious
Work property score value may indicate that the preference of the content requestor 104 of the image for each extraction, and
The important measure which image is most possibly ratified by content requestor 104 can be determined that.Aobvious
Work property score value may further indicate that image is how wellly corresponding to the content shown in landing resource 106.
In some embodiments, picture material evaluator 326 is each based on be associated with image
Plant correlation criterion and image is carried out ranking.Such as, picture material evaluator 326 can use phase
Closing property criterion is come to each image assigned relevance score value.Picture material evaluator 326 can pass through
URL based on landing resource 106 or the content item that automatically generates are by image (such as, image
Metadata, picture material etc.) relatively determine the dependency for image compared with Keyword List
Score value.Such as, Keyword List can based on enterprise classifying, the type of business, enterprise's kind or with
Other attribute that the businesses or entities that landing resource 106 is associated is associated.Some embodiment party
In formula, Keyword List can title based on the content item generated or other genus of content item
Property (such as, activity, advertisement group, characteristic product etc.).Relevance score may indicate that specific pattern
As representing the probability of enterprise, product or the service shown in the content item automatically generated.
In some embodiments, content evaluation device 326 performed before image carries out ranking
One or more threshold testings.Such as, content evaluation device 326 can be by by mass dete ctor 318
Distribute to the quality score of each image compared with threshold quality score value.If for image
Quality score is less than threshold quality score value, the then discardable image of image ranking module 308.Content
Evaluator 326 can be by the display size of each extraction and processed image and threshold value display size
Compare.If the display size for image is less than threshold value display size, then image ranking mould
The discardable image of block 308.
In some embodiments, picture material evaluator 326 generates multiple image list.By
The list that picture material evaluator 326 generates can be logo image list.By in image
Hold evaluator 326 generate another list can be from landing resource 106 extract product and/or
The list of prominent image.Another list generated by picture material evaluator 326 can be previous
The image list used by content requestor 104 and/or ratify is (such as, from using image
The image that data base 310 extracts).Image list can include the attribute being associated with each image,
Such as picture traverse, picture altitude, significance score value, relevance score or other image information.
Picture material evaluator 326 can be according to significance score value and/or the relevance score distributing to image
Arrange the image in list.Image list can be used for selecting to be used for including by layout modules 220
Image in the content item automatically generated.
With reference now to Fig. 4, it is shown that according to the block diagram of the color module 214 of described embodiment.
Color module 214 can generate the color scheme for the content item automatically generated.Color module
214 are alternatively used for the background of content item, title, description, button background and/or button literary composition
This color.Advantageously, color scheme can include corresponding to shown in landing resource 106
One or more colors of color.Color module 214 is shown as including Color Picking device 402 He
Color scheme selector 404.
In some embodiments, Color Picking device 402 receives from resource renderer 110 and lands
Resource 106 render dom tree.Dom tree can be that Color Picking device 402 provides image, the back of the body
Scenery (such as, hexadecimal color code, color name etc.), text color and/or land
Other project of display in resource 106.Color Picking device 402 can be based on being provided by dom tree
Information estimates the mass-tone of landing resource 106.
In some embodiments, Color Picking device 402 receives from resource renderer 110 and lands
The snapshot image of resource 106.Can receive and be somebody's turn to do in addition to the dom tree rendered or alternatively
Snapshot image.Advantageously, this snapshot image can be that Color Picking device 402 provides from analyzing DOM
Tree is not easy obvious complementary colors multimedia message.Such as, snapshot image can illustrate exactly
The visual appearance of landing resource 106, including HTML element actual displayed size and by
The style information that JAVASCRIPT renders.Snapshot image can be by as illustrating landing resource 106
The image file (such as .png .bmp .jpg etc.) rendering outward appearance receive.
Color Picking device 402 can extract mass-tone from snapshot image.In some embodiments, color
Color extractor 402 uses the clustering technique of such as k-means cluster etc to come from snapshot image and extracts
Mass-tone.Such as, each pixel of snapshot image can be considered as individual color by Color Picking device 402
Measure (such as, independent k-means observes).Can be (such as, red for each primary colors of light
Color, green and blueness) range from zero saturated (such as, 0) to the most fully saturated (such as,
255) RGB color value represents the color of each pixel.Color Picking device 402 can use one
The predefined color of group (such as, RGB (0,0,0), RGB (225,0,0), RGB (0,255,
0)、RGB(0,0,225)、RGB(255,255,0)、RGB(255,0,255)、
RGB (0,255,255), RGB (255,255,255) etc.) as initial clustering meansigma methods
And each pixel is distributed to the cluster with the meansigma methods of the RGB color value closest to pixel.
Such as, below equation can be used the rgb color of each pixel and each cluster meansigma methods
Compare: | Rmean-Rpixel|+|Gmean-Gpixel|+|Bmean-Bpixel|=poor.In some embodiments,
If RGB color value and the difference clustered between meansigma methods recently for pixel exceed threshold value (example
As, | Rmean-Rpixel|+|Gmean-Gpixel|+|Bmean-Bpixel| ＞ threshold value), then can create new average
Value.(such as, have closest to for pixel distributing to cluster recently by each pixel
The cluster of the meansigma methods of colour) after, can RGB color value based on the pixel in each cluster come
Recalculate each average cluster value.In some embodiments, can be by clustering weight to recently
Newly distribute pixel till pixel restrains in stable meansigma methods or until executed threshold
Subsequent iteration is performed till the iteration of value number of times.
Color Picking device 402 can number based on the pixel in each cluster to Color-based clustering of refining
Carry out ranking.Such as, can will have the Color-based clustering ranking of most pixel for representing main color
Coloured silk, can will have the Color-based clustering ranking of pixel more than second for representing the second main color etc..
In some embodiments, Color Picking device 402 can be based on relative to the pixel in snapshot image
Sum for corresponding Color-based clustering in number of pixels come to each color allocation weights.Color
Color extractor 402 can generate the list (such as, rgb value) of the color of extraction and each color
Color weights or dominance ranking.
Advantageously, k-means cluster can provide Color Picking technology, and it is in terms of time complexity
Will not as the number of the pixel in snapshot image square function and increase (such as,).Alternatively, k-means cluster has the number with pixel and takes advantage of
To cluster the proportional time complexity of the number of times of iteration (such as,
Time_complexity=K*npixels*iterations).With k-means cluster number of pixels and time
Between linear relationship between complexity may result in the meter of the improvement compared to other Color Picking technology
Evaluation time, especially when extracting color from relatively large snapshot image.
In some embodiments, Color Picking device 402 is before extracting mass-tone from snapshot image
Advertisement and/or other third party content are filtered.Such as, Color Picking device 402 can keep
Or receive the list of third party content supplier.Color Picking device 402 can be for stemming from the 3rd
The content item of side content provider resolves the dom tree rendered and eliminates from the dom tree rendered
This type of third party content and any subject matter.Color Picking device 402 is also based on third party
During the operation of content item, position and display size remove this type of content from snapshot image.
Again referring to Fig. 4, color module 214 is further illustrated as including color scheme selector 404.
Color scheme selector 404 can use the color determined by Color Picking device 402 generate for
The color scheme of the content item automatically generated.Color scheme selector 404 is alternatively used for raw
The background colour of content item of one-tenth, button color, title color, description color, button text
Color or the color of other parts.Color scheme selector 404 can determine that the color of each extraction
Saturation, brightness, meriting attention property and/or other attributes and each extraction color between
Contrast.
In some embodiments, color scheme selector 404 is optional by Color Picking device 402
The main color (such as, the heaviest weighting, the highest dominance ranking etc.) extracted is as being used for
The background colour of content item.Color scheme selector 404 can be chosen with the highest saturation that is multiplied
With the extraction color of weights (such as, max (saturation * weights)) as content item
Button color.Color scheme selector 404 is optional to be had the highest with selected background colour
The color of contrast and/or luminance difference is as title and the color of description text.If it exceeds
Two colors can be used, then the optional more noticeable color conduct of color scheme selector 404
Title color.
In other embodiments, color scheme selector 404 is alternatively used for content item
Predefined color scheme.This predefined color scheme can be used to select background colour, button color,
Title color, describe the content item of color, button text color or generation other parts and
It not directly to apply the color extracted by Color Picking device 402.This predefined color scheme can
To be the combination of the color being previously combined into color template or color group.At some embodiment
In, choosing color scheme can be predefined based on the color extracted by Color Picking device 402 from one group
Select predefined color scheme.Such as, color scheme selector 404 can be by by Color Picking device 402
The color extracted is compared with the color being included in multiple predefined color scheme.Color scheme
Selector 404 can be based on the one or more and bag in the color extracted by Color Picking device 402
Include in the color in predefined color scheme one or more between difference (such as, RGB
Value, saturation, brightness, contrast etc.) by predefined color scheme ranking.From predefined
The color of color scheme can supplement or replace in the content item automatically generated by Color Picking device
402 colors identified.
With reference now to Fig. 5, it is shown that according to the block diagram of the text module 216 of described embodiment.
In some embodiments, text module 216 can be used to be automatically created by content generation system
The textual portions (such as, text description, title etc.) of the 114 display contents generated.At other
In embodiment, text module 216 can be used to have independently produced plain text content item.Favorably
Ground, text module 216 can automatically generate " intention " partly (such as, base of content item
In the description of text, persuasion property text, the emotion etc. in front), thus eliminate content provider
Spend time at and write intention or employ copymaker to the needs developing on intention.Text
Module 216 is shown as including comment localizer 502, emotion detector 504 and text selecting device
506。
In some embodiments, text module 216 uses the dom tree of landing resource 106
Or snapshot image creates the summary of the text of display in landing resource 106.Such as, text
Module 216 can receive, from resource renderer 110, the dom tree rendered and be extracted in landing resource
The text message of display on 106.In other embodiments, text module 216 is from removing investment from the mainland
Source outside source 106 obtains text data.Such as, text module 216 can be from enterprise, product
Or the user of service creates comment and receives text data.
Again referring to Fig. 5, text module 216 is shown as including comment localizer 502.Comment location
Comment database 508 can be searched for the comment that user creates by device 502.In some embodiments,
Comment can be applied to enterprise generally.In other embodiments, comment can be applicable to and land
Specific products that resource 106 is associated or service (such as, landing resource 106 is shown,
Show, present).Comment database 508 can be allow user put up in the above suggestion,
Submit comment, assessment product and/or service to or additionally pass on its viewpoint about specific enterprise
Internet resource (such as, website).Such as, comment database 508 can be to be obtained by it
The website of comment that creates of user, such as Google+Local, ZAGAT, YELP,
URBANSPOON or other resource.
In some embodiments, comment localizer 502 can use the URL of landing resource 106
This type of comment is positioned and/or guides text module 216 to being exclusively used in specific enterprise
The specific resources of comment or the part of resource.Such as, the URL of landing resource 106 can be used to refer to
Surely can obtain in the above about the comment relevant to the business entity that landing resource 106 is associated
The part of comment database 508.In some embodiments, comment localizer 502 can
To multiple resource searchings about the enterprise identified by landing resource 106 user create comment.
In some embodiments, comment localizer 502 is transcribed based on audio frequency or based on video comment
Opinion is to generate text comments for analyzing further.
Again referring to Fig. 5, text module 216 is further illustrated as including emotion detector 504.Feelings
Thread detector 504 can be configured to be with or without numeral represent grading (such as, " in 51 ",
" 4 star " etc.) in the case of determine that comment is front or negative.Emotion detector 504
The language of comment can be resolved, find adjective (such as, the pole indicating the usually emotion in front
Good, good, fine, marvellous etc.).Emotion detector 504 can be analyzed a part for comment, comment
The text of the comment that the whole text of opinion or the grading represented with numeral combine is with recognition expression one
As the comment of emotion in front.
Text selecting device 506 can to comment search " segment " (such as, phrase, text string,
Part etc.), it effectively passes on the user couple submitting comment why to when being read individually
Enterprise, product or the service commented on have the experience in front." segment " can include by emotion
In the adjective in the front that detector 504 uses when identifying the emotion being associated with comment one
Individual or multiple.Such as, text selecting device 506 can be from the most tediously long comment of Italian restaurants
Middle selection segment " fabulous pasta and service are quickly ".In some embodiments,
Can using the text fragment that identified by text selecting device 506 as potential " intention " (such as,
Descriptive text) present to content requestor 104 to use in plain text content item.
In other embodiments, text fragment can be used as being generated by content generation system 114
The textual portions of one or more display content items.
With reference now to Fig. 6, it is shown that according to the block diagram of the layout modules 220 of described embodiment.
Layout modules 220 can generate the layout for the content item automatically generated.Layout modules 220
List and the list of product/prominent image of emblem logo image can be received from image module 212.Each
Image list can recognize that multiple image and by each image ranking (such as, with significance score value,
Relevance score etc.).Layout modules 220 also can receive one or more from color module 214
Selected color scheme also receives one or more selected font system from font module 218
Row.Selected color scheme and selected can received in the case of each distribution score value
Font family.Layout modules 220 also can receive the selection to text fragment from text module 216.
Selected text fragment can have any length and can include any number of segment.
In some embodiments, layout modules 220 can receive from resource renderer 110 and land
The snapshot image of resource 106.Layout modules 220 can use snapshot image to determine landing resource
The style (such as, present, rural etc.) of 106 and/or visual appearance (such as, the making of shape
With, corner, fillet etc.).Layout modules 220 can call enterprise database 606 to obtain use
Company information in landing resource 106.Company information may specify and is associated with resource 106 of landing
The kind (such as, fast food, auto parts and components etc.) of enterprise and its of the enterprise that is associated
Its attribute.
Again referring to Fig. 6, layout modules 220 is shown as including layout generator 602.Layout generates
Device 602 can be based on the image identified, text fragment, color scheme and font family next life
Become the layout for content item.Such as, layout generator 602 can use image module 212
The display size (such as, highly, width etc.) of the image identified and text module 216
The length of the text fragment identified creates the layout for content item.
In some embodiments, layout generator 602 predefines layout options's (example from one group
As, template layout) middle selection layout.Template layout can include the text for content item,
The predefined position of image, Action Button and/or further feature and display size.Layout generator
Image can be redefined size and/or adjust text to be suitable for selected layout by 602.?
In other embodiment, layout generator 602 creates the new layout for content item.Favorably
Ground, new layout can be not based on template or predefined design, thus cause seeming unique content
Project.It is more fully described non-template layout designs with reference to Fig. 7-12.
Again referring to Fig. 6, layout modules 220 is further illustrated as including layout scorer 604.Cloth
Office's scorer 604 can be to the various layouts distribution numerical score generated by layout generator 602.
Total score for content item can be based on the selected image used in the content item, text
Independent score value (such as, saliency, the Color-based clustering weights of segment, color and font
Deng).In some embodiments, the score value of distribution can be based on the most how high effect
Ground uses space (such as, blank space and the ratio utilizing space), selected image and institute's selection
This layout being suitable for generating (such as, is applied to the cutting of image or the journey of stretching how wellly
Degree), how wellly shown with content item other color of color in selected image
Join, the readability of text (such as, contrast between text color and background colour, without serif
The use etc. of font) and/or (such as, the use, interior of " golden ratio " of other aesthetic criterion
Filling up around the outer perimeter of appearance project, the image of content item, text and other ingredient
Between spacing etc.).Scoring criterion may also include the image in content item, text and moves
Make the relative position of button.Such as, can to have by from the upper right corner of content item to content item
The purpose lower left corner is divided by the content item of image, text and Action Button that order of successively decreasing is arranged
Join relatively high score.
With reference now to Fig. 7-12, it is shown that set according to multiple non-template layouts of described embodiment
Meter.Non-template layout designs can be based on one group of layout generating criteria flexibly.Advantageously, flexibly
Layout generating criteria may result in adapt to by content generation system 114 module 212-220 select
The layout of attribute of image, text fragment, font and color.This adaptability layout guideline
May result in be suitable for specific landing resource seem that unique content item (such as, is not based on
Template).
Such as, referring particularly to Fig. 7, layout generator 602 can carried by image module 212
Image for the highest scoring (such as, has and exceedes the significance score value of threshold value or dependency divides
Value image) time create " half and half " layout 700.Layout 700 is shown as including the first half
710 and second half 720.Half 710 can be exclusively used in and show higher assessment partial image 712, and half 720
Can be used to show title text (such as, text box 722), descriptive text (such as, text
Frame 724) and/or Action Button 726.Can from landing resource 106 or from user create enterprise,
Product or service reviews extract title text 722 and descriptive text 724.Action Button 726 can
Including " call action " text (the such as, " point of content item instigating user to click on generation
Hit here ", " buy now ", " reading more " etc.).
In some embodiments, can be based on the length of the text fragment selected by text module 216
The font spent and/or selected by font module 218 is to adjust text box 722,724 and Action Button
The relative size of 726.(such as, the image of display in half 710 can be redefined size
Cutting, stretch, compression etc.) with the size of applicable half 710.In some embodiments,
Half 710 can be positioned in the left side of half 720.In other embodiments, can be by one
Half 710 navigates to the right side (such as, for horizontal content item) of half 720 or in half
The up/down (such as, for vertical content project) of 720.
With reference now to Fig. 8, layout generator 602 can have greatly being provided by image module 212
" text covering " layout 800 is created during the image of display size.Layout 800 is shown as including mark
Topic text 810, descriptive text 820, Action Button 830 and background image 840.Can be by
Title text 810 and descriptive text 820 are included in transparent or semitransparent text box 812 and 822
In so that background image 840 is visible after the text presented.In some embodiments,
Semi-transparently can cover to provide text 810,820 and background image by text box 812,822
Contrast between the color of 840.Translucent shield can be improved the text 810,820 presented and exist
Readability when being covered on background image 840.For wherein title text 810 or description
Property text 820 the layout of color very dark (such as, black, brown, navy blue etc.), literary composition
This frame 812 and/or 822 can shielded one-tenth white or another light color.Action Button 830 can be by not
Cover transparent, transparent or semitransparently.Layout 800 can allow the most substantially to Background
Big background image 840 is shown in the case of redefining size or cutting as 840.Can based on by
The length of text fragment that text module 216 selects and the font system selected by font module 218
Row adjust title text 810, descriptive text 820 and the display size of Action Button 840
With display position.
With reference now to Fig. 9, layout generator 602 can provided high scoring by image module 212
" inclination text " layout 900, and the text sheet selected by text module 216 is created during image
Disconnected is relatively short.Layout 900 be shown as including title text 910, descriptive text 920 with
And background image 930.Background image 930 can fill the whole space of content item, thus provides
The relatively large description of the product, service or the enterprise that show in the content item.Can be by heading-text
Basis 910 and descriptive text 920 cover on background image 930.Text 910,920 can phase
Edge for content item is to tilt.Can be by title text 910 and descriptive text 920
It is included in transparent or semitransparent text box 912 and 922 interior to provide text 910,920 and background
Contrast between the color of image 940.Translucent shield can improve the text 910,920 presented
Readability when being covered on background image 940.
With reference now to Figure 10, layout generator 602 can create " blurred background " layout 1000.
Layout 1000 is shown as including title text 1010, descriptive text 1020 and blurred background
Image 1030.Title text 1010 is shown as including word " example of title ".Implement at some
In mode, layout generator 602 can search for by text module 216 provide for crossing word
Text fragment.Transition word can be by the short word of the two of text fragment partial link, such as " ...
In ", " ... on ", " being used for ", " ... ", " with " etc..Layout generator 602
Can by transitional word stylization (such as, with italics, runic, enhancing etc.) and/or incited somebody to action
Cross on the independent row that word is placed in the content item.Background image 1030 can be made to obscure, fade or
Person is the dimmest.Advantageously, make background image 1030 obscure and can make focusing on of reader
In the textual portions of content item.Can be extracted based on from landing resource 106 by font module 218
Font specify for title text 1010 and the font of descriptive text 1020.
With reference now to figure Figure 11 A-11D, layout generator 602 can be at selected image and text
The display size of segment is not filled by during entire content project creating layout 1100 flexibly.Such as,
The highest scoring logo or product/prominent image 1110 can be placed on content item by layout generator 602
In purpose turning (such as, upper left, upper right, lower-left, bottom right).Layout generator 602 can
Remaining unused storage space 1120 is divided into one or more rectangle (such as, as in Figure 11 B
Shown rectangle 1122,1124,1126).In some embodiments, layout generator 602
One or more in rectangle can be combined into bigger rectangle.Referring particularly to Figure 11 C, rectangle
1124 and 1126 are illustrated as being combined into bigger rectangle 1127.Referring particularly to Figure 11 D, rectangle
1122 and 1126 are illustrated as being combined into bigger rectangle 1129.
Layout generator 602 can not use text sheet based on remaining selected by text module 216
The display size of the image broken and/or selected by image module 212 or aspect ratio are by one or many
Individual rectangle combines.Such as, if not using image to have exceed the display width not using image
The display height attributes of attribute (such as, 200 pixels, 10 pixels etc.) (such as, 400 pixels,
200 pixels etc.), then layout generator 602 can be " perpendicular to create by rectangle 1122 and 1126 combination
To style " rectangle 1129 (such as, has the square of the display height of the display width exceeding rectangle
Shape).Advantageously, can be as desired to distribution unused storage space use image to adapt to remaining
And/or the aspect ratio of text fragment, display size and display length.
With reference now to Figure 12 A and 12B, it is shown that according to described embodiment for banner wind
The flexible topology 1200 of lattice content item.Referring particularly to Figure 12 A, flexible topology 1200 is shown
For including image 1210, title text 1220 and unused storage space 1230.Layout generator
602 can be by being initially placed on higher assessment partial image 1210 and title text 1220 in content item
Create layout 1200.Can by image 1210 along the top of content item, bottom, side,
Middle or turning is placed.Title text 1220 can be placed on the appropriate location in content item,
Make title text 1220 not overlay image 1210.Title text 1220 can be placed on image
1210 below, the image 1210 other places above, in image 1210 side or content item.
Advantageously, the position of image 1210 and title text 1220 is flexibly, because layout 1200
It is not based on pre-configured stencil design.After placing image 1210 and text 1220, layout
Maker 602 can determine that the amount of the unused storage space 1230 remained in content item.
Referring now particularly to Figure 12 B, layout generator 602 can be by unused storage space 1230 strokes
It is divided into one or more rectangle (such as, rectangle 1240,1250 and 1260).Real at some
Execute in mode, the display size of rectangle or aspect ratio can based on selected by text module 216 its
Yu Wei use text fragment or by image module 212 select do not use image display size and/
Or aspect ratio.Layout 1200 is shown as including the second image being placed in the first rectangle 1240
1242, it is placed on the descriptive text segment 1252 in the second rectangle 1250 and is placed on
Action Button 1262 in three rectangles 1260.
With reference now to Figure 13, it is shown that according to described embodiment be used for automatically generate display
The flow chart of the process 1300 of content.Process 1300 is shown as including the position specifying landing resource
The URL (URL) (step 1302) put.URL can be received from content requestor
A part as the request in order to generate content item.URL may specify the content item of generation
The position of the landing resource that subscriber equipment is directed to when " being clicked on ".May be in response to user's point
Hit (such as, with mouse) or additionally activate the content item generated and at user interface facilities
(such as, monitor, touch screen or other electronic displays) upper display landing resource.Land
Resource can be webpage, local resource, Intranet net resource, internet resource or other network
Resource.In some embodiments, landing resource can provide about at the content item automatically generated
The additional information of the product, service or the enterprise that show in mesh.Such as, landing resource can be can
The product or the website of service shown in the content item generated is bought by it.
Again referring to Figure 13, process 1300 is further illustrated as including defining from landing Resource Access
The visual information (step 1304) of one or more images, text and color.Real at some
Execute in mode, actually aobvious in landing resource when visual information includes being rendered in the presence of investment from the mainland source
Image, color and the text shown.Step 1304 can relate to use resource renderer (such as,
Web browser or other hardware possessing rendering capability or software part) render landing resource also
Generate dom tree or the snapshot image of the landing resource rendered.In other embodiments, vision
Information includes it not being from the directly visible metadata of the snapshot image of landing resource and other code
(such as, HTML code, CSS code etc.).Covered code and metadata definable
The position (such as, URL) of image of display, display size, display position (example on investment from the mainland source
As, the top of landing resource, the centre etc. of landing resource) and other association attributes is (such as,
Alt text, special logo labelling etc.).Covered code and metadata also definable is in landing resource
The font name of upper display, font family, color and text.Visual information definable
Specific enterprise, product or the service of display on investment from the mainland source.
Again referring to Figure 13, process 1300 is further illustrated as including based on from landing Resource Access
Visual information select one or more image, text fragment and color (step 1306).
In some embodiments, step 1306 includes select actually to show in landing resource one
Individual or multiple image, text fragment and color.Image shown by selection can include from landing
The image of Resource Access carries out marking or ranking score value based on distribution select image.Can base
In metadata (such as, URL, display position, display size, the alt literary composition being associated with image
This etc.) distribute score value to image.In some embodiments, can be based on being associated with image
Whether metadata comprises the nominal key carrying out selecting for emblem logo image is come to image distribution point
Value.Such as, keyword can be special logo labelling, such as links
Rel=" example-logo-markup ".
In some embodiments, display color is selected can to include the snapshot image from landing resource
Extract one or more color.Each pixel of snapshot image can be considered as individual color measure,
And the clustering technique of such as k-means cluster etc can be used to extract mass-tone.Such as, can be true
Stand and use initial colour (such as, RGB color value, hexadecimal color code etc.) labelling multiple
Initial color clusters.Can distribute fast to the Color-based clustering with the colour closest to pixel colour
According to each pixel in image.After distributing each pixel to nearest cluster, can be based on cluster
In the colour of pixel recalculate the average color of each cluster.In some embodiments,
Can be by redistributing pixel to the cluster with nearest average color until cluster be stable
Perform the most repeatedly till convergence or till the iteration of executed threshold number in meansigma methods
Generation.Step 1306 can relate to based on the sum relative to the pixel in snapshot image for corresponding
Number of pixels in Color-based clustering comes to each color allocation weights.Can be chosen with maximum weights
Color to be included in the content item automatically generated.
In some embodiments, the text of display in landing resource is selected to can relate to for literary composition
This parsing HTML dom tree also generates the summary of the text of display in landing resource.At other
In embodiment, snapshot image can be analyzed, and can use optical character recognition (OCR) or
Other text recognition technique is from the image zooming-out text rendered.Summary text can be at investment from the mainland
The continuous text string shown on source or the text shown on the various positions on landing resource
The summary of fragment combination.
In some embodiments, step 1306 includes selecting to be actually not in landing resource
One or more images, text fragment and/or the color of display.Such as, from landing Resource Access
Visual information can recognize that specific enterprise, product or service.Can be based on shown enterprise, product
The identity of product or service selects image (such as, enterprise from one group of previously stored emblem logo image
Logo, trade mark, service mark etc.), no matter this emblem logo image is actually no in landing resource
Upper display.Can be based on from the color of landing Resource Access from one group of previous combination (such as, automatically
Ground, manually etc.) color scheme in select color scheme.In some embodiments, nothing
Any color that opinion is included in color scheme the most actually shows the most optional in landing resource
Select color scheme.In some embodiments, can be from actually not showing on landing resource
Hiding metadata, HTML code or other text in select text fragment.Such as, from
The visual information of land Resource Access can recognize that specific enterprise, product or service.This identity can be used to
Position the complete or collected works of comment that the user about specific enterprise, product or service creates, and can be from
One or more middle selection text fragment in the comment that user creates.
Again referring to Figure 13, process 1300 is further illustrated as including based on selected image or selected
One or more in text fragment generate the layout (step 1308) for content item.
Step 1308 can relate to mark height logo or product/prominent image is placed on turning of content item
Angle (such as, upper left, upper right, lower-left, bottom right), edge (such as, upper and lower, left,
Right) or middle (such as, not being edge or turning) remaining unused storage space is divided into one
Individual or multiple rectangles.The amount of remaining space can be based on the display of the image placed in the content item
Size.In some embodiments, can based on remaining text fragment and the display size of image or
One or more in rectangle are combined into bigger rectangle by aspect ratio.Such as, if not using figure
As having display height attributes (such as, pixel, inch etc.), it exceedes and does not uses image
Display width attribute (such as, " vertical style " image), then can be by rectangle combination to create
" vertical style " space of image can be placed wherein.Advantageously, can be as desired to distribute
Unused storage space is to adapt to remaining aspect ratio not using image or display size and any not make
By the length of text fragment.
In some embodiments, step 1308 can relate to receive landing resource snapshot image with
And use snapshot image determine landing resource style (such as, modern, rural etc.) and/or
Visual appearance (such as, the use of shape, corner, fillet etc.).Step 1308 can relate to adjust
With enterprise database to obtain the company information for resource of landing.Company information may specify with
The kind (such as, fast food, auto parts and components etc.) of the enterprise that investment from the mainland source is associated and relevant
Other attribute of the enterprise of connection.The layout generated by step 1308 can be based on style information and/or enterprise
Industry information.
Again referring to Figure 13, process 1300 is further illustrated as including by answering the layout generated
With selected image, selected text fragment and selected color, content item is combined (step
1310).In some embodiments, can be by selected image and text fragment cutting or the most true
Sizing is to fall in the appointment placeholder in the layout generated.In other embodiments, may be used
Placeholder is redefined size, movement or rearranges to adapt to selected image and/or text.
Selected color can be covered as background colour, text color, button color, translucent text box
Color, border color or generate content item in visible other color any be applied to
Content item.
In some embodiments, process 1300 may also include the content item scoring to combination
The content item of combination is also presented to content requestor (step 1314) by (step 1312).
Total score for content item can be based on the selected image used in the content item, text
Independent score value (such as, saliency, the Color-based clustering weights of segment, color and font
Deng).In some embodiments, the score value of distribution can be based on the most how high effect
Ground uses space (such as, blank space and the ratio utilizing space), selected image and institute's selection
This layout being suitable for generating (such as, is applied to the cutting of image or the journey of stretching how wellly
Degree), how wellly shown with content item other color of color in selected image
Join, the readability of text (such as, contrast between text color and background colour, without serif
The use etc. of font) and/or (such as, the use, interior of " golden ratio " of other aesthetic criterion
Filling up around the outer perimeter of appearance project, the image of content item, text and other ingredient
Between spacing etc.).Scoring criterion may also include the image in content item, text and moves
Make the relative position of button.Such as, can to have by from the upper right corner of content item to content item
The purpose lower left corner is divided by the content item of image, text and Action Button that order of successively decreasing is arranged
Join relatively high score.
In the content item completed can being presented to together with other content item automatically generated
Hold requestor.Content requestor can be ratified or refuse the content item automatically generated.If criticized
With the establishment content of content requestor, standard, then can show that preference is used in conjunction with content item also
The content time slot presented in resource via one or more electronics sends user interface facilities to.?
In some embodiment, the image of the content item of recordable approval, text fragment, color and/
Or layout.The data that can use record generate please for same content requestor or different content
The subsequent content project of the person of asking.Such as, can generate for same content requestor follow-up in
Appearance project uses the emblem logo image (such as, enterprise's logo, Product Logo etc.) of approval.Can
Use the layout of approval as flexible mould when generating for the content item of other content requestor
Plate.Advantageously, the input received from content requestor (such as, is ratified or refuses content item
Mesh) feedback control loop for designing, configure or generate content item adaptively can be completed.
With reference now to Figure 14, it is shown that according to described embodiment be used for automatically generate content
The flow chart of the process 1400 of the textual portions of project.In some embodiments, can use
Journey 1400 is automatically created the content item also including image, color or other non-text elements
Textual portions (such as, text description, title etc.).In other embodiments, process
1400 can be used to create plain text content item independently.Advantageously, process 1400 can be automatically
Generate content item " intention " partly (such as, text based describe, persuade property text,
The emotion etc. in front), thus eliminate content provider and spend time at and write intention or employ
Copymaker develops the needs on intention.
Process 1400 is shown as including the unified resource location receiving the position specifying landing resource
Symbol (URL) (step 1402).URL can be received as in order to generate from content requestor
A part for the request of appearance project.URL may specify and uses when the content item of generation " is clicked on "
The position of the landing resource that family equipment is directed to.May be in response to user's click and (such as, use Mus
Mark) or additionally activate the content item generated and user interface facilities (such as, monitor,
Touch screen or other electronic displays) upper display landing resource.Landing resource can be webpage,
Local resource, Intranet net resource, internet resource or other Internet resources.Implement at some
In mode, landing resource can provide about in the content item automatically generated show product,
Service or the additional information of enterprise.Such as, landing resource can be can be bought by it generating
Content item in show product or the website of service.
Again referring to Figure 14, process 1400 is illustrated as farther including to obtain one or more user
Comment, it includes providing about the user of enterprise, product or the service of display in landing resource
Comment (step 1404).In some embodiments, comment can be generally applicable to enterprise.
In other embodiments, comment can be applicable to the specific products being associated with landing resource 106
Or service (such as, show in landing resource 106, show, present).Can be from comment
Data base obtains the comment that user provides.Comment database can be to allow user to open in the above
Patch suggestion, submission are commented on, are assessed product and/or service or additionally pass on about specific enterprise
The internet resource (such as, website) of its viewpoint.Such as, comment database 508 can be
The website of the comment that can be created by its acquisition user, such as Google+Local, ZAGAT,
YELP, URBANSPOON or other resource.
In some embodiments, step 1404 can relate to use the URL of landing resource to determine
This type of comment of position or identification are exclusively used in specific resources or the portion of resource of the comment of specific enterprise
Point.Such as, the URL of landing resource 106 can be used to specify can obtain in the above about with
A part for the comment database of the comment of the business entity that investment from the mainland source 106 is associated.Step 1404
Can relate to multiple resource searchings about the enterprise by landing resource identification user create comment
Opinion.In some embodiments, step 1404 can relate to transcribe based on audio frequency or based on video
Comment on to generate text comments for analyzing further.
Again referring to Figure 14, process 1400 be further illustrated as including identifying in comment or
Front phrase in multiple, it keyword (step 1406) including indicating front emotion.Can
Perform step 1406 be with or without numeral represent grading (such as, " in 51 ", " 4
Star " etc.) in the case of determine that comment is front or negative.Step 1406 can relate to solve
The language of analysis comment, the adjective of the emotion finding instruction front is (such as, fabulous, good, very
Good, marvellous etc.).Step 1406 can relate to analyze a part for comment, the whole text of comment
Or the text of comment that combines of the grading represented with numeral commenting with the emotion in recognition expression front
Opinion.The front of included in nominal key can be identified in the comment representing front emotion
Phrase.
Again referring to Figure 14, process 1400 is further illustrated as including extracting one or many of comment
Individual part, it includes one or more (steps 1408) in identified front phrase.Step
Rapid 1408 can relate to comment search " segment " (such as, phrase, text string, part etc.),
It effectively passes on the user submitting comment why to the enterprise to being commented on when being read individually
Industry, product or service have the experience in front.This segment may be included in identification in step 1406
One or more in the phrase of front.
In some embodiments, process 1400 also includes presenting carrying of comment to content requestor
Take part and receive the one or more input the part selecting to be extracted from content requestor
(step 1410).Content requestor can be ratified or refuse the text fragment extracted.Advantageously,
The input (such as, ratify or refuse content item) received from content requestor can complete to use
In the feedback control loop designing, configure or generating content item adaptively.If gone through, then
Group of text synthesis content item (step 1412) that can will extract.In some embodiments,
The text of extraction can be used as also including image, color or other non-text elements (such as,
Display content element) the textual portions (such as, text description, title etc.) of content item.
In other embodiments, the text of extraction can be a part (example of plain text content item
As, text " intention ").
With reference now to Figure 15, it is shown that according to described embodiment be used for automatically generate for
The flow chart of the process 1600 of the layout seeming uniqueness of content item.Process 1500 can be used
Realize the step 1308 and 1310 of process 1300.Such as, the most from landing Resource Access
One group of image, text fragment, font and color, then can use process 1500 by image,
Text fragment, color and font set synthesis full content item.
Process 1500 is illustrated as receiving one or more image and one or more text fragment (step
Rapid 1502).In some embodiments, in addition to the image received and text fragment, step
Rapid 1502 may also include the one or more fonts of reception and one or more color.Can be with contingency table
Signing and receive image together, this tag along sort specifies whether image is emblem logo image, product/prominent figure
Whether picture or image belong to other kind any of image.The image of each reception can include belonging to
Property information (such as, the list etc. of mass-tone in display height, display width, image).Often
The text fragment of individual reception can include length attribute.Length attribute may specify for text fragment
Display size, and can be depending on font (such as, the word being used in conjunction with text fragment
Body size, font family etc.).In some embodiments, can be together with score value, ranking, power
Value or other scoring tolerance receive image, text fragment, color and font.Can use with
The score value that each element is associated determines that selection element is to be included in the content item of generation
Priority or order.
Again referring to Figure 15, process 1500 is illustrated as also including creating the framework for content item
(step 1504).Framework for content item can correspond to the size (example of content item
As, display height, display width etc.) rectangle or non-rectangle framework.At some embodiment
In, step 1504 can relate to create corresponding to for the multiple potential display chi of full content item purpose
Very little or multiple frameworks of yardstick.Such as, the generation of multiple various sizes of framework can be used multiple not
Content item with size.
Process 1500 is also illustrated as including that one by the image of reception is placed in framework
In original position (step 1506).Can be based on score value (such as, the higher assessment distributing to image
Partial image), the display size of image, image classification (such as, logo, product, other
Prominent image) or based on image and the text fragment being also potentially included in content item,
The prediction score value that color and/or font are coordinated how wellly selects the figure selected for initial placement
Picture.Initial pictures can be placed on (such as, upper left, upper right, lower-left, the right side, turning of framework
Under), edge (such as, upper and lower, left and right) or middle (such as, not along edge or
Turning).
Again referring to Figure 15, process 1500 be illustrated as also including by framework any remaining do not make
It is divided into one or more rectangle (step 1508) with space.The amount of remaining space can based on
The display size of the initial pictures being placed in step 1506 in framework and/or position.Real at some
Execute in mode, text fragment and the display size of image or aspect ratio can not used to incite somebody to action based on remaining
One or more in rectangle are combined into bigger rectangle.Such as, aobvious if not using image to have
Showing height attributes (such as, pixel, inch etc.), it exceedes the display width not using image
Attribute (such as, " vertical style " image), then can be combined by rectangle can be wherein with establishment
Place " vertical style " space of image.Advantageously, can be as desired to distribution use sky
Between to adapt to remaining aspect ratio not using image or display size and any not use text sheet
Disconnected length.
Process 1500 be illustrated as also including by the text fragment do not placed or image or
Multiple it is placed in one or more rectangle (step 1510).In some embodiments, may be used
By selected image and text fragment cutting or redefine size to fall in the appointment of the layout generated
In placeholder.In other embodiments, placeholder can be redefined size, movement or weight
Newly arrange to adapt to selected image and/or text.Selection is used for being placed into one or more square
Image and text fragment in shape can display size based on image, the display length of text fragment
And/or distribute to the score value of each not used in image and text fragment.
In some embodiments, step 1510 can include that the layout application to generating receives
Color and font.Can using the color that receives as background colour, text color, button color, half
Transparent text box cover color, border color or generate in content item visible any other
Color is applied to layout.The text fragment that can be applied to the font received to be placed in framework,
Title text, button text or other text any of display in the content item generated.
With reference now to Figure 16, it is shown that according to described embodiment be used for automatically generate display
The flow chart of the process 1600 of content.Process 1600 can be by raw with reference to the content as described in Fig. 2-6
One-tenth system 114 uses one or more memory module (such as, image module 212, color
Module 214, text module 216, font module 218, layout modules 220 etc.) perform.
In some embodiments, process 16000 can substantially by image module 212 perform with from
Image is extracted in investment from the mainland source 106, analyzes and process the image of extraction, and by image ranking so as
The display content items automatically generated uses.
Process 1600 is shown as including and receives the URL (URL) identifying landing resource
(step 1602).URL can be received from content requestor (such as, content requestor 104)
A part as the request in order to generate content item.URL may specify when subscriber equipment 108
The landing resource that when interacting with the content item generated, subscriber equipment 108 is directed to is (such as,
Landing resource 106) position.Landing resource can be webpage, local resource, Intranet net money
Source, internet resource or other Internet resources.In some embodiments, landing resource can carry
For the additional information about product, service or the enterprise shown in the content item automatically generated.
Such as, landing resource can be can to buy, by it, the product shown in the content item generated
Or the website of service.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including from landing Resource Access image (step
1604).Step 1604 can be by image zooming-out module 302 performed previously with reference to as described in Fig. 3.
Such as, step 1604 can include from resource renderer (such as, resource renderer 110, resource
Renderer modules 210 etc.) receive the dom tree for resource of landing.Step 1604 can include
Resolve dom tree to identify and to extract image and image metadata (such as, image URL, aobvious
Show position, display size, alt text etc.).
In some embodiments, step 1604 includes in addition to landing resource also from other data
Image and image metadata are extracted in source.Can be able to include from its other data source extracting image
Use image data base (such as, data base 310) and/or stock's image data base is (such as,
Data base 312).Image data base 310 has been used to could be for pointing to and being currently generated
The landing resource 106 (such as, same URL, same territory etc.) that content item is identical previous
The storage vault of all images used in content item.Use image data base can include by interior
Hold the image that requestor provides and/or the image previously ratified by content requestor.Can be by figure
Image as using in data base stores together with additional data (such as, image metadata),
The previous third party content project that this additional data is such as included therein with image is associated
Keyword and other data.
Stock's image data base could be for not necessarily being associated with content requestor or from
The storage vault of the multiple image of land Resource Access.Stock's image data base can include providing from other
Source is extracted or is additionally supplied to the image of content generation system.From use image data base and
The image that stock's image data base is extracted can include such as enterprise's logo (such as, trade mark, service
Mark etc.), the picture of distinguishing products or other prominent image.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including analyzes the image extracted to detect image
Vision content and the meaning content (step 1606) of image.In some embodiments, step
Rapid 1606 can be by content detection module 304 performed previously with reference to as described in Fig. 3.Real at some
Executing in mode, step 1606 includes the display size determining the image of each extraction.If be used for
The display size of image is less than threshold value display size (such as, threshold level, threshold width, threshold
Value area etc.), then step 1606 can include abandoning image.In some embodiments, step
1606 include the aspect ratio determining the image for each extraction.If the aspect ratio for image
Not in predefined aspect ratio range (such as, 0.2-5,0.33-3,0.5-2 etc.), then step
1606 can include abandoning image.
Analyze the position that the image extracted can include detecting the image of each extraction with detection vision content
Put, size and/or distribution of content therein.In some embodiments, step 1606 include right
Notable object in the image extracted positions.Notable object can be foreground image, feature
Object or other object shown highlightedly in the image extracted.At some embodiment
In, step 1606 includes that the distribution analyzing the color in image is with by foreground object and backcolor
Differentiate.Between step 1606 can include that the edge identifying in the image extracted is with detection object
Border (such as, foreground object, background object, side by side object etc.).By notable object with
Other object differentiates can be useful to the most meaningful or important area identifying image.
In some embodiments, the vision content of the image of Detection and Extraction includes detecting text.
It is each with detection that step 1606 can include that the image extracted performs optical character recognition (OCR)
The text of type (such as, title text, intention text, arouse action text, advertisement literary composition
This etc.).Some image extracted itself can be the advertisement of the intention text including their own.
Step 1606 can include identifying the image area including text so that text can be carried out cutting
Or remove from image.
In some embodiments, step 1606 includes generating the aobvious of the image for each extraction
Work property map.This significance map can text, face and/or foreground object in labelling image
Position.Such as, can identify with rectangle list that there is the region of text or face.Available two enter
Bitmap processed, line or boundary marker represent foreground area.Step 1606 may include determining whether in image
Notable object relative to the size of whole image.If notable object represented in image with
The display size of whole image compare be relatively small (such as, less than threshold value, less than total display
The certain percentage etc. of size), step 1606 can include abandoning this image or by this image from
Remove in the image list being included in the candidate of the content item of generation.
Analyze the image extracted can include identifying the object described in the picture with detection semantic content
Or the meaning passed on by image.Step 1606 can include use visual search service (VSS),
Picture material annotation front end (ICAFE) and/or picture material annotation service (ICAS) determine
The semantic content of image.This type of service can be configured to receive image (such as, image URL,
Image file etc.), analyze image and output describes the various labels of the content described in image
(such as, title, keyword, phrase etc.).Step 1606 can be by annotation of images and search clothes
Business be configured to use disparate modules (such as, logo module, product module etc.) refine for
The keyword of input picture generation and label.
Step 1606 can include distributing label or keyword as its attribute or label to image.Example
As, for the image of Audi, step 1606 can include distributing keyword " vapour to image
Car ", " sport car ", " Audi ", " Audi R8VI 0 " or describe image qualitatively
Other keyword of content.In some embodiments, including make each keyword or label with
The accuracy of estimation of image or the score value of dependency are associated by instruction keyword or label.This mark
Sign and/or keyword may be used to determine image and specific third party content project, search inquiry and/or
The dependency of e-sourcing.
In some embodiments, step 1606 includes the visual quality determining the image of extraction
(such as, aesthetic quality).Visual quality for image can come by visual signature based on image
Represent for the human vision preference of image, the exposure of described visual signature such as image, sharp
Degree, contrast, color scheme, color density and/or other aesthetic quality.Step 1606 can be wrapped
Include by utilizing computer vision, cluster and the metadata for image to come true with algorithmic approach
Determine visual quality.Such as, step 1606 can include using image or characteristics of image as to for
The image preference of mankind institute labelling and the input of ranking model that is trained to.At some embodiment
In, step 1606 includes the most being marked to identify examining of image by the mankind with previous by the feature of image
Beautiful or visual quality characteristics of image compares.Have and commented the characteristics of image of high score more by the mankind
The image of the feature being closely matched can be allocated higher quality score in step 1606.Tool
The image of the feature that the characteristics of image that has and commented high score by the mankind is different can be divided in step 1606
Join relatively low quality score.
Again referring to Figure 16, the result that process 1600 is shown as including based on analyzing determines image
The need of process, and process image (step 1608) in response to the determination of needs process.
In some embodiments, step 1608 can be by image processing module 306 as previously with reference to Fig. 3
Perform describedly.Step 1608 can process the image extracted in step 1604 so that image is accurate
Get ready and use in the content item.In various embodiments, step 1608 includes entering image
Row cutting, by image formatting, strengthens image, is removed from image by text, or additionally adjust
Whole image is to use in the content item automatically generated.
Step 1608 can include that distribution based on the picture material detected in step 1606 is right
The image of each extraction carries out cutting.Such as, step 1608 can include using in step 1606
The significance map of middle generation determine comprise notable object (such as, foreground object), text,
The region of each image of face and/or other type of detected content.Can be notable by comprising
The image section of object, text and face is expressed as rectangle in significance map.Step 1608
Can include using the distribution of content indicated by significance map to identify each image to be kept
A part and a part for each image to be abandoned.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes identifying each image comprising notable object
A part.The position of the notable object in image may be expressed as a pair in significance map
Vector.Such as, vertical vector and the horizontal vector of the rectangle in useable definition image indicates aobvious
Write the position of object.Step 1608 may include determining whether to comprise the one of notable object in each image
Individual or the size of multiple rectangle and position.For comprising the image of multiple notable object, step
Rapid 1608 can include selecting in notable object to be kept one or more He to be abandoned notable
One or more in object.In some embodiments, to include that generation comprises many for step 1608
The rectangle of individual notable object.In step 1608 generate rectangle can be include multiple the most right
The minimum of elephant may rectangle.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes determining that the rectangle comprising notable object is relative
In the size of total display size of image (such as, as percentage ratio, the conduct of total display size
The ratio etc. of the gross area of image).In some embodiments, step 1608 includes determining bag
Edge (such as, top margin, base, side etc.) containing the rectangle of notable object and the limit of image
The amount in the space between edge.Such as, step 1608 can include identifying the rectangle comprising notable object
Edge and image border between distance (such as, pixel count etc.).Step 1608 can include
Determine distance (such as, the top of rectangle between each edge and the respective edges of image of rectangle
The distance between distance, the base of rectangle and the base of image between limit and the top margin of image
Deng).
Step 1608 can include that size based on the notable object in image and position determine
No image is carried out cutting.For each image, step 1608 can include based on image aobvious
Show that size (such as, the 80% of display size, 60% of display size etc.) carrys out reference area threshold
Value.If the rectangle comprising notable object has the area exceeding area threshold, then step 1608
May include determining whether image not to be carried out cutting.If the rectangle comprising notable object has it is less than
The area of area threshold, then step 1608 may include determining whether that tackling image carries out cutting.At some
In embodiment, if notable object takies the about one-third of the area less than image, then walk
Rapid 1608 include determining that reply image carries out cutting.
Step 1608 can include carrying out image cutting and not comprise some of notable object to remove
Or all picture materials.Such as, step 1608 can include image is carried out cutting so that only
The rectangle comprising notable object stays.In some embodiments, step 1608 includes image
It is cut into the border including notable object rectangle and this notable object rectangular circumference.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes the text from image.Step 1608
Can include using the significance map generated in step 1606 to identify each figure including text
A part for picture.Such as, the position of the text during step 1608 can include identification instruction image
One or more rectangles.In some embodiments, step 1608 include based on comprising the most right
The image area of elephant and the image area comprising text determine a part for image to be kept.
Such as, step 1608 can include abandoning the image section comprising text, and keeps comprising significantly
The image section of object.Step 1608 can include by generation rectangle from image cropping text,
This rectangle includes the one or more rectangles comprising notable object and does not comprise the rectangle of text.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes becoming to be only included in step 1608 by image cropping
Picture material (such as, notable object, face etc.) in the rectangle of middle generation.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes from image frame cutting emblem logo image.Example
As, some image extracted in step 1604 can be independent button or the combination of emblem logo image
Or compiling (such as, comprising the splicing canvas of multiple logo within a grid).Step 1608 can be wrapped
Include position the cutting image frame of the emblem logo image determined in image frame so that only logo
Image stays.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes strengthening or optimizing carrying in step 1604
The image taken is to use in the content item generated.Strengthen or optimize image can include such as
The edge making image is circular, adds illuminating effect to image, adds texture or the degree of depth to image
And/or apply other effect to strengthen the visual impact of image.
In some embodiments, step 1608 includes producing in step 1606 for identifying
The content detection result of emblem logo image.Some emblem logo image can be by as straight in step 1604
And simply logo extracts.Such as, when logo is rendered by subscriber equipment 108, landing resource
Can be dependent on CSS or another content-label scheme to change the outward appearance of straight/simple logo.Step
1608 can include processing emblem logo image with by promoting logo to look like three-dimensional, the interpolation degree of depth
Or illuminating effect, make that turning is circular, promote logo to show as button, optimize logo so as
In mobile device, display or the other logo that adjusts are to improve its visual impact by straight/simple
Logo is converted into optimization logo.Step 1608 can include processed image is stored in data storage
In equipment.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including based on the vision content detected and institute
Image is marked (step 1610) by least one in the semantic content of detection.At some
In embodiment, step 1610 can be by image ranking module 308 previously with reference to as described in Fig. 3
Perform.Step 1610 can include which determining in image being included within various image rankings with
In the content item generated.
In some embodiments, step 1610 include in step 1604 from landing resource
The each image distribution significance score value extracted.Significance score value for image may indicate that for
Landing resource shows importance associated or the salience of image.Such as, showing for image
Work property score value can be depending on being disposed vertically of image (such as, the top of the page, the centre of the page,
The bottom etc. of the page), the display size of image (such as, display height, display width etc.),
Whether image occupy center and/or other saliency scoring criterion in landing resource 106.
In step 1610, can be used to distribute the saliency scoring algorithm of significance score value
An example be:
Salience=α * sigmoid1(positiony, y0, dy) and+β * sigmoid2(width, w0, dsize)
*sigmoid2(height, h0, dsize)+δ*central_alignment
In some embodiments, α, β and δ are entirely positive and and are 1.0.Sigmoid1
(positiony, y0, dy) can be that scope is from position positiony(such as, land in at=0 1.0
The top of resource 106) to positiony0.0 (the end of such as, landing resource 106 at=∞
Portion, hence it is evident that far and apart the top etc. in investment from the mainland source 106) sigmoid function.y0Can be in this place
Sigmoid2The point of=0.5, and dy can control around y0The slope of sigmoid function.Can be by
Sigmoid2It is defined as (1-Sigmoid1), and center aligned can be image whether
The tolerance at investment from the mainland Yuan Shang center alignment (such as, flatly occuping center).If image is complete
Occupy center beauteously, then center aligned can be 1.0, and its can center based on image with
Distance between the horizontal centre in investment from the mainland source reduces.
Step 1610 can include the image ranking will extracted in step 1604.Implement at some
In mode, this ranking is based on the significance score value distributing to each image.Significance score value can
Instruction for the preference of content requestor of image, and can determine which image has most can
The important measure can ratified by content requestor.Significance score value may further indicate that image is how wellly
Corresponding to the content shown in landing resource.
In some embodiments, step 1610 includes various relevant based on be associated to image
Property criterion carries out ranking to image.Such as, step 1610 can include use correlation criterion to
Each image assigned relevance score value.Step 1610 can include by based on landing resource 106
URL or the content item that automatically generates are by image (such as, image metadata, picture material etc.)
The relevance score for image is relatively determined compared with Keyword List.Such as, key column
Table based on enterprise classifying, the type of business, enterprise's kind or can be associated with landing resource 106
Other attribute that businesses or entities is associated.In some embodiments, Keyword List can base
Title or other attribute (such as, movable, advertisement of content item in the content item generated
Group, characteristic product etc.).Relevance score may indicate that specific image represents in automatically generating
The probability of enterprise, product or the service shown in appearance project.
In some embodiments, step 1610 performs one before being included in and image carrying out ranking
Individual or multiple threshold testings.Such as, step 1610 can include distributing in step 1606
The quality score of each image is compared with threshold quality score value.If the quality for image is divided
Value is less than threshold quality score value, then step 1610 can include abandoning image.Step 1610 can be wrapped
Include the display size of each extraction and processed image compared with threshold value display size.As
Fruit is less than threshold value display size for the display size of image, then step 1610 can include abandoning figure
Picture.
In some embodiments, picture material step 1610 includes generating multiple image list.
The list generated in step 1610 can be the list of emblem logo image.In step 1610
Another list of middle generation can be the product from landing Resource Access and/or specific image list.
Another list generated in step 1610 can be previously used by content requestor and/or
The image list (image such as, extracted from the image data base used) of approval.Image
List can include the attribute being associated with each image, such as picture traverse, picture altitude, aobvious
Work property score value, relevance score or other image information.Step 1610 can include according to distributing to
The significance score value of image and/or relevance score arrange the image in list.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including from the figure included from landing Resource Access
One group of image of picture selects higher assessment partial image (step 1612).This group image can include from
One or more images of landing Resource Access and from other data source (figure such as, used
As data base 310, stock's image data base 312 etc.) one or more images of extracting.The highest
Scoring image can be to have to meet all threshold value criterions (such as, display size criterion, quality
Score value criterion etc.) the image of highly significant score value.
In some embodiments, step 1612 includes selecting to look into particular content item, search
Inquiry, landing resource or the maximally related image of subscriber equipment.Step 1612 can include identify with wherein
The keyword that the content item including selected image is associated.Such as, step 1612 can include
Identify the title of content item, title, topic or other attribute.Step 1612 may include determining whether
With associated content item (such as, in same advertisement group, a part for same activity and with
The content item that one content provider is associated etc.) one or more keywords of being associated.Can
Contents extraction from landing resource and search inquiry is used for land resource and/or search inquiry respectively
Keyword.Keyword for special user equipment can be based on user interest profile, the most clear
Look at history, search inquiry history, geographical limiter or other attribute of subscriber equipment.Step 1612
Can include by the keyword that is associated with each image with landing resource, search inquiry or user
The keyword that equipment is associated compares.Step 1612 can include determining based on Key comparison
Which in image is maximally related, and selects associated picture so that at the content item generated
Middle use.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including and generates the third party including selected image
Third party content project is also distributed to subscriber equipment (step by content item (step 1614)
1616).Generate and include that the third party content project of selected image can include selected image and elder generation
Before from landing Resource Access and be chosen (such as, by perform one of process 1300-1500 or
Multiple steps) for the text fragment in the content item generated, font family, color
Scheme and/or layout are combined.Content item is distributed to subscriber equipment can include content item
It is delivered to subscriber equipment or first party resource.Subscriber equipment can combine with first party resource content
Render and show third party content project.
Third party content project can be configured to intersected with third party content project by subscriber equipment
Time mutually, subscriber equipment is directed to landing resource.With content item can include alternately show content
Project, hovering on content item, click on content project, viewing are for the source of content item letter
Breath or subscriber equipment and content item between any other type of alternately.With content item
Mutual do not require that user is relative to the clear and definite action of specific content item purpose.At some embodiment
In, flash (such as, show or present content item) can be qualified as alternately.For fixed
Being qualified as mutual criterion can for which user action of justice (such as, actively or passive)
By content requestor or by content generation system 114 individually (such as, for each content item
Mesh) determine.
Again referring to Figure 16, process 1600 is shown as including collection and distributes statistics and facing to investment from the mainland source
Monitor and change to determine whether to update third party content project (step 1618).Collection distributes system
Meter may include determining whether that the content item generated is distributed to the content of the number of times of subscriber equipment, generation
Number of times and/or the content item of detection generation that project is watched by subscriber equipment or clicked on set with user
Other between Bei is mutual.In some embodiments, step 1618 includes assessment and generation
The performance statistics that content item is associated is (such as, it was predicted that clicking rate, actual click rate, conversion
Number of times, ROA etc.).Performance statistics may indicate that the content item of generation be whether effective and
Whether the content item that therefore should be easily reused or generate is invalid and therefore should be with new
Content item replaces (that is, updating).
Facing to land resource monitoring change can include by extract image time landing resource version with
The current version in investment from the mainland source compares.If landing resource since the time that image is extracted
Change (such as, new or different images, new or different content etc.), then step 1618
May include determining whether that the content item generated should be updated to reflect that the change content of landing resource.
If determining that in step 1618 content item of generation should be updated, repeatable process 1600
(such as, from the beginning of step 1604) is with from landing Resource Access new images, the letter to new extraction
Breath is analyzed, processes and ranking, and uses the new image extracted to generate new content item.
Available digital electronic circuit or realize this theme with computer software, firmware or hardware
Embodiment and the operation that describes in this manual, be included in this specification and equivalent thereof
In and one of which or multiple combinations disclosed in structure.Can be by this specification
Described in the embodiment of this theme be embodied as one or more computer program, i.e. at one
Or on multiple computer-readable storage medium coding to be performed by data processing equipment or control it to operate
One or more modules of computer program instructions.As an alternative or furthermore it is possible to artificial raw
On the transmitting signal (such as machine generates electricity, light or electromagnetic signal) become, programmed instruction is carried out
Coding, this manually generated transmitting signal be generated as encoding information onto in case be transmitted into suitable
Receive device to be performed by data processing equipment.Computer-readable storage medium can be that computer can
Read storage device, computer-readable memory substrate, random or serial access memory array or set
Standby or one or more combination, or be included therein.Although additionally, calculating
Machine storage medium is not transmitting signal, but computer-readable storage medium can be in manually generated biography
Broadcast source or the destination of the computer program instructions of coding in signal.Computer-readable storage medium also may be used
Being that (such as, multiple CD, dish or other storage set for one or more discrete parts or medium
Standby) or be included therein.Therefore, computer-readable storage medium is tangible and non-provisional.
Operation described in the disclosure can be embodied as by data processing equipment to be stored in one or
The operation that the data received in multiple computer readable storage devices or from other source perform.
Term " client " or " server " include the dress of all kinds for processing data
Put, equipment and machine, for example include programmable processor, computer, SOC(system on a chip)
Or aforementioned every multiple or combination.Described device can include dedicated logic circuit, such as on-the-spot
Programmable gate array (FPGA) or special IC (ASIC).In addition to hardware, this dress
Put and can also include creating the code performing environment for computer program the most under discussion
(such as composition processor firmware, protocol stack, data base management system, operating system, across flat
Platform runtime environment, virtual machine or the code of one or more combination).This device
Various different computation model infrastructure can be realized with performing environment, such as web services, point
Cloth calculates and grid computing infrastructure.
The system and method for the disclosure can be completed by any computer program.Available any form
Programming language (including compiling or interpretative code or statement or procedural language) write calculating
Machine program (also referred to as program, software, software application, script or code), and can be by it
Dispose in any form, including as stand-alone program or as module, parts, subroutine, right
As or be suitable for other unit used in a computing environment.Computer program can but need not
Corresponding to the file in file system.Program can be stored in other program of holding or data (example
Such as, one or more scripts being stored in marking language document) file a part in,
It is exclusively used in the single file of program the most under discussion or at multiple coordination files (such as,
Store the file of one or more module, subprogram or code section) in.Can be by computer journey
Sequence is deployed on a computer or is being positioned at the three unities or is being distributed also across multiple places
By on multiple computers of interconnection of telecommunication network.
The process described in this manual and logic flow can be by performing one or more calculating
Machine program with by input data operate and generate output perform of action or many
Individual programmable processor performs.This process and logic flow can also be performed by dedicated logic circuit,
And also device can be embodied as dedicated logic circuit (such as, FPGA or ASIC).
The processor being suitable for computer program execution for example includes general and special micro-process
Any one or more processors of device and any kind of digital computer.Usually, place
Reason device will from read only memory or random access memory or both receive instruction and data.Calculate
The necessary element of machine is for the processor according to instruction execution action with for storing instruction sum
According to one or more memory devices.Usually, computer also will include or by operation coupling
Close to receive from it data or to its transmit data or both for storing of data or many
Individual mass-memory unit (such as magnetic, magneto-optical disk or CD).But, computer is not required to
There is this kind equipment.Furthermore, it is possible to computer to be embedded (such as mobile electricity in another equipment
Words, personal digital assistant (PDA), Mobile audio frequency or video player, game console,
Global positioning system (GPS) receiver or portable memory apparatus (such as, USB (universal serial bus)
(USB) flash driver etc.).The computer being suitable for storing computer program instructions and data can
Read medium and include that the nonvolatile memory of form of ownership, medium or memory devices, citing come
Say and include semiconductor memory devices (such as, EPROM, EEPROM and flash memory
Equipment；Disk, such as internal hard drive or removable dish；Magneto-optic disk；And CD-ROM and
DVD-ROM dish).Available dedicated logic circuit supplements processor and memorizer or combination
Wherein.
Mutual in order to allow with user, can realize on computers describing in this manual
The embodiment of this theme, described computer has user and can be used to provide input to computer
Display device (such as, CRT (cathode ray tube), LCD (liquid crystal display), OLED
(Organic Light Emitting Diode), TFT (thin film transistor (TFT)) or other flexible configuration, or be used for
Display to the user that other monitor any and keyboard, the pointing device, such as mouse, rail of information
Mark ball etc. or touch screen, Trackpad etc.).Be used as the equipment of other kind provide with
User's is mutual；Such as, it is provided that can be any type of perceptible feedback (example to the feedback of user
As, visual feedback, auditory feedback or sense of touch feedback)；And can receive in any form
From the input of user, input including acoustics, speech or sense of touch.It addition, computer can pass through
Interact with user with receiving document to sending document with the equipment used from user；Such as,
On in response to the request received from web browser to the client device of user
Web browser sends webpage.
The embodiment of this theme described in the disclosure, this calculating can be realized in computing systems
System includes back-end component (such as, as data server), or it includes middleware portion
Part (such as, application server), or include that having user can be retouched in the disclosure by it
Graphic user interface that the embodiment of the theme stated interacts or the front end component of web browser
(such as, client computer), or this type of rear end one or more, middleware or front end
Any combination of parts.Can be (such as, logical by any form of digital data communications or medium
Communication network) by the component connection of system.The example of communication network includes LAN and WAN, mutually
Networking (such as, the Internet) and ad-hoc network (such as, self-assembly ad-hoc network).
Although this specification comprises many particular implementation details, but should these details not recognized
For to any disclosure or the restriction of scope that may call for protection, but as specific to specifically disclosed
The description of feature of particular implementation.In the disclosure under the background of discrete embodiment
Some feature described can also realize in combination in single embodiment.On the contrary, at list
The various features described under the background of individual embodiment can also be individually or with any suitable son
Combination realizes in multiple embodiments.Although additionally, describing feature as above with some group
The mode effect closed is even initially the most claimed, but in some cases can be from this combination
Remove the one or more features from claimed combination, and claimed combination can
To be the change for sub-portfolio or sub-portfolio.
Similarly, although depict each operation according to particular order in the drawings, but should not be managed
Solve for require according to shown particular order or according to consecutive order to perform this generic operation, or
Perform all of shown operation to realize desired result.In some cases, multitask and also
It can be favourable that row processes.Additionally, should be by the various system units in above-mentioned embodiment
Separation be interpreted as being desirable that this type of separates in all embodiments, and it should be understood that institute
State program element and system usually can be integrated in single software product or seal
Install to the multiple software products embodied on one or more tangible mediums.
Can be upper real in intelligent television module (or the television module of connection, mixing television module etc.)
Existing feature disclosed herein, this intelligent television module can include being configured to by Internet connection with
More traditional tv program source (such as, receive via wired, satellite, broadcast or other signal)
Integrated process circuit.Intelligent television module can be merged in television set physically, or can
Including separate devices, such as Set Top Box, blue light or other digital media player, game control
Platform, hotel television system and other is with equipment.Can be configured to allow for intelligent television module seeing
The person of seeing searches for and finds on web, on local cable TV channels, on satellite TV channel or
It is stored in video, film, photo and other content on local hard disk driver.Set Top Box (STB) or
Set top unit (STU) can include information training equipment, and it can comprise tuner and be connected to TV
Machine or the external source of signal, become signal tuning then on telescreen or other display device
The content of display.Intelligent television module can be configured to provide main screen or top layer screen, including
For the icon of multiple different application, this application such as web browser and multiple streaming media service
(such as, Netflix, Vudu, Hulu etc.), connect wired or satellite media source, other web
" channel " etc..Intelligent television module may be additionally configured to provide a user with electronic program guides.
The adjoint application of intelligent television module can operate to provide a user with on a mobile computing device
About the additional information of available programs, to allow user to control intelligent television module etc..In alternative
In embodiment, can be in laptop computer or other personal computer, smart phone, other shifting
Feature is realized on mobile phone, handheld computer, flat board PC or other calculating equipment.
Therefore, it has been described that the particular implementation of this theme.Other embodiment is in appended power
In the range of profit requires.In some cases, the action recorded in the claims can be according to
Different orders performs and still realizes desired result.It addition, the process described in the accompanying drawings is not
Particular order shown in certain requirement or consecutive order are to realize desired result.Implement at some
In mode, multitask and parallel processing can be favourable.
Claims (20)
1. for automatically generating a computerized method for display content, described method bag
Include:
URL, described system is received from third party content supplier at circuit processing
One URLs identification landing resource；
By described process circuit from described landing Resource Access image；
The image extracted by described process circuit analysis with detect described image vision content and
The semantic content of described image；
By described process circuit based in the vision content detected and the semantic content detected
Described image is marked by least one；
By described process circuit from one group of figure of the described image included from described landing Resource Access
Higher assessment partial image is selected in Xiang；And
The third party content project of selected image is included, wherein by described process circuit evolving
Described third party content project is configured to point at described landing resource.
2. the method for claim 1, farther includes:
Result based on described analysis determines that described image is the need of process；And
Described image is processed to strengthen being detected of described image in response to the determination of needs process
Vision content and described image the semantic content detected at least one.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein scheme from described in described landing Resource Access
As including:
Determine that the significance score value for described image, the instruction of described significance score value are used in institute
State the salience of the image that display is extracted in landing resource.
4. the method for claim 1, farther includes:
Collecting multiple images from multiple different positions, the plurality of different position includes following
At least one: resource under same territory or subdomain of described landing resource and described landing resource,
And the storage of the image previously used in the content item being associated with third party content supplier
Warehousing.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein analyze the image extracted to regard with detection
Feel that content includes the position determining the notable object in described image.
6. method as claimed in claim 5, wherein it is determined that the notable object in described image
Position include detecting the COLOR COMPOSITION THROUGH DISTRIBUTION of described image and detect in described image described the most right
At least one in the edge of elephant.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein analyze the image extracted to regard with detection
Feel that content includes the position determining the text in described image.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein analyze the image extracted to regard with detection
Feel that content includes:
Generate the significance map for described image, image described in described significance Map recognition
In the position of notable object and the position of any text in described image.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein the image extracted is analyzed to detect language
Justice content includes:
Generate one or more labels of the described semantic content describing described image；And
The label generated is stored as the attribute of described image.
The most the method for claim 1, wherein the image extracted is analyzed with detection
It is right that vision content includes that position based on the notable object represented in described image determines whether
Described image carries out cutting；And
Wherein, process described image include in response to described image is carried out cutting determination and
Described image is carried out cutting to strengthen the visual impact of described notable object.
11. described methods as claimed in claim 1, farther include:
Identify one or more taste characteristics of described image；
The one or more taste characteristic is applied to the figure for mankind institute labelling as input
The algorithm ranking procedure being trained to as preference, wherein, described algorithm ranking procedure is configured to
Described taste characteristic image preference based on described mankind institute labelling is used to generate for described
The quality score of image.
12. 1 kinds of systems showing content for automatically generating, described system includes:
Processing circuit, described process circuit is configured to:
URL, described URL is received from third party content supplier
Identify landing resource；
From described landing Resource Access image；
Analyze the image extracted to detect vision content and the semanteme of described image of described image
Content；
Based at least one in the vision content detected and the semantic content detected to described
Image is marked；
Higher assessment is selected from including from one group of image of the described image of described landing Resource Access
Partial image；And
Generate the third party content project including selected image, wherein said third party content
Project is configured to point at described landing resource.
13. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, described process circuit is configured to:
Result based on described analysis determines that described image is the need of process；And
Described image is processed to strengthen being detected of described image in response to the determination of needs process
Vision content and described image the semantic content detected at least one.
14. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, from described in described landing Resource Access
Image includes:
Determine that the significance score value for described image, the instruction of described significance score value are used in institute
State the salience of the image that display is extracted in landing resource.
15. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, described process circuit is configured to:
Collecting multiple images from multiple different positions, the plurality of different position includes following
At least one: resource under same territory or subdomain of described landing resource and described landing resource,
And the image previously used in the content item being associated with described third party content supplier
Storage vault.
16. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, analyze the image extracted with detection
Vision content includes:
Determine at least one position following: the notable object in described image and described image
In text；And
Generate the significance map for described image, below described significance Map recognition at least
The position of one: the described notable object in described image and the described text in described image.
17. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, analyze the image extracted with detection
Semantic content includes:
Generate one or more labels of the described semantic content describing described image；And
The label generated is stored as the attribute of described image.
18. systems as claimed in claim 12, wherein, analyze the image extracted with detection
It is right that vision content includes that position based on the notable object represented in described image determines whether
Described image carries out cutting；And
Wherein, process described image include in response to described image is carried out cutting determination and
Described image is carried out cutting to strengthen the visual impact of described notable object.
19. 1 kinds for extracting and generate the system of the image for showing content, described system
Including:
Processing circuit, described process circuit is configured to from including landing resource and at least one its
Multiple data sources of its data source extract image；
Wherein, the content that described process circuit is configured to detect in each extracted image is divided
Cloth, described distribution of content includes at least one in the position of notable object and the position of text；
Wherein, the result that described process circuit is configured to based on distribution of content detects processes institute
The image extracted, wherein, processes the image that extracted and includes in response to detecting in the picture
Described notable object takies the determination less than the threshold area in described image and to the figure extracted
As carrying out cutting；And
Wherein, described process circuit is configured to be based at least partially on the knot of distribution of content detection
Fruit carries out ranking to the image extracted.
20. systems as claimed in claim 19, wherein, described process circuit is configured to meter
Calculate for significance score value from the page of each image of described landing Resource Access, described aobvious
The score value instruction of work property is used for the salience of the image that display is extracted in described landing resource；
Wherein, the image extracted carries out ranking to be based at least partially on for from described landing
Significance score value on the described page of each image of Resource Access.
Applications Claiming Priority (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
PCT/CN2013/086779 WO2015066891A1 (en) | 2013-11-08 | 2013-11-08 | Systems and methods for extracting and generating images for display content |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN105874449A true CN105874449A (en) | 2016-08-17 |
CN105874449B CN105874449B (en) | 2019-05-31 |
Family
ID=53040790
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201380081946.9A Active CN105874449B (en) | 2013-11-08 | 2013-11-08 | For extracting and generating the system and method for showing the image of content |
Country Status (3)
Country | Link |
---|---|
JP (1) | JP6334697B2 (en) |
CN (1) | CN105874449B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2015066891A1 (en) |
Cited By (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN107590719A (en) * | 2017-09-05 | 2018-01-16 | 青岛海信电器股份有限公司 | Generate method and device, the readable storage medium storing program for executing of virtual resource displaying image |
CN108431758A (en) * | 2016-11-22 | 2018-08-21 | 华为技术有限公司 | User behavior acquisition methods based on screen picture and terminal |
CN110009712A (en) * | 2019-03-01 | 2019-07-12 | 华为技术有限公司 | A kind of picture and text composition method and its relevant apparatus |
CN110612531A (en) * | 2017-04-28 | 2019-12-24 | 微软技术许可有限责任公司 | Intelligent automatic cutting of digital images |
CN110909506A (en) * | 2018-09-10 | 2020-03-24 | 北京京东金融科技控股有限公司 | Method and device for generating planar design material |
CN116974684A (en) * | 2023-09-22 | 2023-10-31 | 鲸数科技（北京）有限公司 | Map page layout method, map page layout device, electronic equipment and computer readable medium |
Families Citing this family (9)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US10110868B2 (en) | 2016-12-22 | 2018-10-23 | Aestatix LLC | Image processing to determine center of balance in a digital image |
WO2019014089A1 (en) * | 2017-07-14 | 2019-01-17 | Golden Casey | Systems and methods for providing online chat-messages with configurable, interactive imagery |
US20190205901A1 (en) * | 2017-12-29 | 2019-07-04 | Facebook, Inc. | Dynamic creation of content items for distribution in an online system by combining content components |
KR102114366B1 (en) * | 2018-07-03 | 2020-05-22 | 카페24 주식회사 | Online shopping mall banner design generation method, apparatus and system |
CN110166790B (en) * | 2019-05-24 | 2021-02-09 | 山西共致科技有限公司 | Live photo broadcasting system with face recognition function and method thereof |
CN110377900A (en) * | 2019-06-17 | 2019-10-25 | 深圳壹账通智能科技有限公司 | Checking method, device, computer equipment and the storage medium of Web content publication |
KR102411301B1 (en) * | 2020-04-23 | 2022-06-22 | 한국과학기술원 | Apparatus and method for automatically generating domain specific image caption using semantic ontology |
US20230267416A1 (en) * | 2022-02-22 | 2023-08-24 | International Business Machines Corporation | Incremental implementation framework for data and ai strategy |
CN115022732B (en) * | 2022-05-25 | 2023-11-03 | 阿里巴巴（中国）有限公司 | Video generation method, device, equipment and medium |
Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN1606049A (en) * | 2003-10-08 | 2005-04-13 | 冲电气工业株式会社 | Advertisement display system and automatic transaction apparatus for use therein |
CN101512581A (en) * | 2006-02-15 | 2009-08-19 | 微软公司 | Generation of contextual image-containing advertisements |
US20120159620A1 (en) * | 2010-12-21 | 2012-06-21 | Microsoft Corporation | Scareware Detection |
CN102662950A (en) * | 2012-02-29 | 2012-09-12 | 北京明日时尚信息技术有限公司 | Active advertisement generation method based on Internet picture |
WO2013102915A2 (en) * | 2011-11-08 | 2013-07-11 | Hoopz Planet Info Pvt, Ltd | A contextual connected system and a method thereof |
Family Cites Families (7)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US8326686B2 (en) * | 2006-03-30 | 2012-12-04 | Google Inc. | Automatically generating ads and ad-serving index |
AU2007249205B2 (en) * | 2006-05-12 | 2013-03-21 | Monster Worldwide, Inc. | Systems, methods, and apparatuses for advertisement generation, selection and distribution system registration |
US20080065620A1 (en) * | 2006-09-11 | 2008-03-13 | Puneet Chopra | Recommending advertising key phrases |
WO2011099108A1 (en) * | 2010-02-10 | 2011-08-18 | パナソニック株式会社 | Image evaluating device, image evaluating method, program, and integrated circuit |
US20110258054A1 (en) * | 2010-04-19 | 2011-10-20 | Sandeep Pandey | Automatic Generation of Bid Phrases for Online Advertising |
US20120030014A1 (en) * | 2010-07-29 | 2012-02-02 | Google, Inc. | Automatic Ad Creative Generation |
US20130132209A1 (en) * | 2011-11-11 | 2013-05-23 | Google Inc. | Generating an advertising campaign |
-
2013
- 2013-11-08 WO PCT/CN2013/086779 patent/WO2015066891A1/en active Application Filing
- 2013-11-08 JP JP2016528119A patent/JP6334697B2/en active Active
- 2013-11-08 CN CN201380081946.9A patent/CN105874449B/en active Active
Patent Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN1606049A (en) * | 2003-10-08 | 2005-04-13 | 冲电气工业株式会社 | Advertisement display system and automatic transaction apparatus for use therein |
CN101512581A (en) * | 2006-02-15 | 2009-08-19 | 微软公司 | Generation of contextual image-containing advertisements |
US20120159620A1 (en) * | 2010-12-21 | 2012-06-21 | Microsoft Corporation | Scareware Detection |
WO2013102915A2 (en) * | 2011-11-08 | 2013-07-11 | Hoopz Planet Info Pvt, Ltd | A contextual connected system and a method thereof |
CN102662950A (en) * | 2012-02-29 | 2012-09-12 | 北京明日时尚信息技术有限公司 | Active advertisement generation method based on Internet picture |
Cited By (8)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN108431758A (en) * | 2016-11-22 | 2018-08-21 | 华为技术有限公司 | User behavior acquisition methods based on screen picture and terminal |
CN110612531A (en) * | 2017-04-28 | 2019-12-24 | 微软技术许可有限责任公司 | Intelligent automatic cutting of digital images |
CN107590719A (en) * | 2017-09-05 | 2018-01-16 | 青岛海信电器股份有限公司 | Generate method and device, the readable storage medium storing program for executing of virtual resource displaying image |
CN110909506A (en) * | 2018-09-10 | 2020-03-24 | 北京京东金融科技控股有限公司 | Method and device for generating planar design material |
CN110009712A (en) * | 2019-03-01 | 2019-07-12 | 华为技术有限公司 | A kind of picture and text composition method and its relevant apparatus |
US11790584B2 (en) | 2019-03-01 | 2023-10-17 | Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. | Image and text typesetting method and related apparatus thereof |
CN116974684A (en) * | 2023-09-22 | 2023-10-31 | 鲸数科技（北京）有限公司 | Map page layout method, map page layout device, electronic equipment and computer readable medium |
CN116974684B (en) * | 2023-09-22 | 2023-12-08 | 鲸数科技（北京）有限公司 | Map page layout method, map page layout device, electronic equipment and computer readable medium |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
JP6334697B2 (en) | 2018-05-30 |
CN105874449B (en) | 2019-05-31 |
WO2015066891A1 (en) | 2015-05-14 |
JP2017500634A (en) | 2017-01-05 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN105874449B (en) | For extracting and generating the system and method for showing the image of content | |
US10235349B2 (en) | Systems and methods for automated content generation | |
US11004109B2 (en) | Automated creative extension selection for content performance optimization | |
US20150206169A1 (en) | Systems and methods for extracting and generating images for display content | |
EP3608795A1 (en) | Method and apparatus for generating knowledge graph, device and computer readable storage medium | |
US11023545B2 (en) | Method and device for displaying recommended contents | |
CN106688215B (en) | Automatic click type selection for content performance optimization | |
CN106462559B (en) | Arbitrary size content item generates | |
US20130326333A1 (en) | Mobile Content Management System | |
CN109155136A (en) | The computerized system and method for highlight are detected and rendered automatically from video | |
US20210019468A1 (en) | Visual content optimization system using artificial intelligence (ai) based design generation and validation | |
CN105760521A (en) | Information input method and device | |
KR102111720B1 (en) | Method for design recommending using cloud literary work analysis | |
US20180157763A1 (en) | System and method for generating an electronic page | |
CN104156356B (en) | Personalized Navigation page generation method and device | |
Vempati et al. | Enabling hyper-personalisation: Automated ad creative generation and ranking for fashion e-commerce | |
CN106407220A (en) | Information publishment control method, control apparatus, and system | |
US11625448B2 (en) | System for superimposed communication by object oriented resource manipulation on a data network | |
CN108028839A (en) | The system and method rendered of the unauthorized content included for dynamic limit information resources | |
US10366298B2 (en) | Method and system for identifying objects in images | |
US20150181288A1 (en) | Video sales and marketing system | |
JP6505200B2 (en) | Automated click type selection for content performance optimization | |
CN115115425A (en) | Information stream presentation method and device applied to content recommendation, electronic equipment and storage medium | |
CN117725246A (en) | Image prediction method, device, equipment and readable storage medium |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |