CN106471490B - Classification-based group communication - Google Patents
Classification-based group communication Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN106471490B CN106471490B CN201480080324.9A CN201480080324A CN106471490B CN 106471490 B CN106471490 B CN 106471490B CN 201480080324 A CN201480080324 A CN 201480080324A CN 106471490 B CN106471490 B CN 106471490B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- classification
- communication
- communications
- structured
- cluster
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/20—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor of structured data, e.g. relational data
- G06F16/28—Databases characterised by their database models, e.g. relational or object models
- G06F16/284—Relational databases
- G06F16/285—Clustering or classification
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/30—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor of unstructured textual data
- G06F16/35—Clustering; Classification
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L43/00—Arrangements for monitoring or testing data switching networks
- H04L43/04—Processing captured monitoring data, e.g. for logfile generation
Abstract
To methods and apparatus for clustering documents based on one or more classification items and optionally based on similarity of structured paths of the documents. In some implementations, the document is a communication such as a structured email or other structured communication. In some of these implementations, the group communication includes: identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of a classification; identifying a communication corpus comprising communications that are not tagged with associations to classifications; and determining a cluster of communications based on the occurrence of one or more classification items in the communications of the cluster.
Description
Background
Computer-based methods have been utilized to assign a classification to one or more documents, such as e-mail or other communications. Typically, the classification of a document indicates a category or "vertical" associated with the content of the document. Some approaches utilize classifiers that have been trained using supervised learning techniques. Such supervised learning techniques rely on a training set of labeled documents that have been labeled as being associated with a classification. In some cases, it may be impractical or impossible for a desired supervised training of the classifier to obtain a sufficiently large number of labeled documents. For example, privacy considerations may prevent many e-mails and other private documents from being provided for human review and marking.
Disclosure of Invention
This specification relates generally to methods and apparatus related to clustering documents based on one or more classification items and optionally based on similarity of structured paths of the documents. Some implementations typically involve group communications such as, for example, business-to-consumer ("B2C") email and similar communications. Some of these implementations enable clustering of communications without human intervention and/or without human knowledge of the content of the communications.
In some implementations, clustering communications includes identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of classifications, identifying a communication corpus including communications that are not tagged with associations to the classifications, and determining communications for a cluster based on an occurrence of one or more classification items in the cluster of communications. For example, classification items indicative of a "flight" classification, such as "flight," "departure," "arrival," and the like, may be identified. The cluster of structured communications indicating a "flight" classification can be determined based at least in part on the structured communications including one or more classification items. As described, the one or more structured communications of the determined cluster may include those that have not previously been tagged with an association with a classification. In some implementations, the cluster may be further determined based on a structured path of the structured communication, such that structured communications comprising the same and/or similar structured paths may be included in the cluster.
The determined communication cluster may be used for various purposes. For example, a data extraction template may be generated based on an analysis of communications of the cluster to enable extraction of data from future communications similar to the communications of the cluster. Further, for example, features associated with the communications of the cluster can be determined and assigned to the indication of the classification such that other communications including those features can be associated with the indication of the classification. For example, future communications having one or more characteristics may be automatically assigned a label corresponding to the classification. Further, for example, a data extraction parser corresponding to the classification (extracting desired data from the communication) may be selected for future communications having one or more features.
In some implementations, a computer-implemented method may be provided that includes the steps of: identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of a classification; identifying a communication corpus from one or more databases, the communication corpus comprising a plurality of communications that are not tagged with an association with a classification; determining a cluster of communications based on an occurrence of one or more classification items in the communications of the cluster; determining a feature set based on the clustered communications, the feature set comprising one or more features based on content of the communications other than the classification item; and assigning the feature set to the indication of the classification.
Other implementations of the methods and techniques disclosed herein may each optionally include one or more of the following features.
In some implementations, the communication of the cluster includes a structured communication, and determining the cluster of communications is further based on a structured path of the structured communication of the cluster. In some of these implementations, determining the set of features includes determining a structured feature of the features based on a structured path of structured communication of the cluster. In some versions of those implementations, determining the feature set includes: determining an item feature of the feature based on the communication items of the clustered structured communication, wherein one or more communication items for which the item feature is determined are in addition to the classified items.
In some implementations, determining the set of features includes: determining an item characteristic of the characteristic based on the communication items of the clustered communication; wherein the one or more communication items for which the item characteristics are determined are in addition to the classification item.
In some implementations, the communication of the cluster includes a structured communication, and determining the set of features includes: an item feature of the feature is determined based on the communication items of the clustered structured communication and the structured path of the clustered structured communication. In some versions of those implementations, each item feature indicates an item of the communication item and one or more structured paths in which the item appears in the structured communication of a given cluster.
In some implementations, the communication of the cluster is from multiple sending entities.
In some implementations, identifying classification items indicative of the classification includes: identifying communications having one or more tags indicating a classification; and determining one or more classification items based on the tagged communications. In some implementations, the indicia indicating the classification is based on a name of a folder associated with the tagged communication and/or based on an annotation to the tagged communication by a user receiving the tagged communication. In some implementations, determining one or more classification items based on the tagged communication includes: items of the classified items are selected based on a comparison of the frequency of occurrence of the items in the tagged communication with the frequency of occurrence of the items in a larger corpus of documents.
In some implementations, the communication is an email.
In some implementations, the method further comprises: identifying an additional communication; and determining that the additional communication is associated with the indication of classification based on comparing the set of features with the content of the additional communication.
In some implementations, the indication of the classification is a data extraction parser for the classification. In some of these implementations, the data extraction parser is configured based on the communication of a given cluster.
Other implementations may include a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform a method such as one or more of the methods described above. Yet another implementation may include a system comprising a memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform a method, such as one or more of the methods described above.
It should be understood that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts described in greater detail herein are considered a part of the subject matter disclosed herein. For example, all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are considered part of the subject matter disclosed herein.
Drawings
FIG. 1 illustrates an example environment in which document clusters can be determined, feature sets can be determined based on the clusters, and/or classification indications for additional documents can be determined based on the feature sets.
Fig. 2 shows an example of how communication clusters may be determined and the feature set may be determined based on the clusters.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example of how an indication of a classification of a communication may be determined based on a comparison of the content of the communication with a set of features associated with the indication.
Fig. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating an example method of determining a communication cluster and determining a feature set based on the cluster.
FIG. 5 illustrates an example architecture of a computer system.
Detailed Description
FIG. 1 illustrates an example environment in which a cluster of documents may be determined, a feature set may be determined based on the cluster, and/or an indication of a classification of additional documents may be determined based on the feature set. The example environment includes a clustering system 120, a clustering feature system 130, and a classification system 140. The clustering system 120, the cluster characterization system 130, and the classification system 140 may each be implemented in one or more computers, e.g., over a network. Clustering system 120, cluster feature system 130, and classification system 140 are example systems in which the systems, components, and techniques described herein may be implemented and/or interfaced.
The example environment also includes a communication network 101 that facilitates communication between various components in the environment. In some implementations, the communication network 101 can include the internet, one or more intranets, and/or one or more bus subsystems. The communication network 101 may optionally use one or more standard communication techniques, protocols, and/or interprocess communication techniques.
In general, clustering system 120 identifies classification items associated with a particular classification, and determines clusters of documents based at least in part on occurrences of one or more classification items in the documents of the clusters. The clustering system 120 provides an indication of the clustering and classification to the cluster feature system 130. The clustered feature system 130 determines a feature set of one or more features based at least in part on the content of the clustered documents and assigns the feature set to an indication of a classification. Classification system 140 compares the determined feature set of the content of the additional document to other documents determined to be associated with the indication of classification. Additional description of each of the systems 120, 130, and 140 is provided below.
Generally, as used herein, a "classification" associated with a document indicates a category or "vertical" of the content of the document. Examples of classifications for communication documents include indications of "flight" (e.g., regarding flight reservations, flight reminders), "hotel" (e.g., regarding hotel reservations), "event" (e.g., regarding movies, parties, concerts, or other events), "receipt" (e.g., receipt regarding purchased items), "bills" (e.g., regarding bills for which payment is required), and so forth. Additional and/or alternative classifications may be used, and a document may optionally be associated with multiple classifications. For example, an email that is a purchase receipt for a concert ticket may have a "receipt" category and an "event" category. Further, the classifications may be defined with any desired level of granularity. For example, the classifications may include "flight," "car rental," "train," and/or "traffic" (which may include "flight," "car rental," and "train").
As used herein, a "structured document" may refer to a document that is structured using one or more structured markup languages, such as extensible markup language ("XML") or hypertext markup language ("HTML"). As used herein, a "structured communication" is a structured document that is a communication document such as an email, a text message (e.g., SMS, MMS), an instant message, or any other structured communication, particularly a merchant-to-consumer ("B2C") communication. The communication database 150 may include a corpus of communications, such as communications that include structured communications. For example, in some implementations, communication database 150 may include one or more storage media that store email communications for multiple users. In some implementations, the email service may optionally maintain a communication database 150. In some implementations, the communications of the communications database 150 may include one or more storage media that store text messages or other communications sent and/or received via mobile or other computing devices of multiple users.
A "structured path" may refer to an address (e.g., constructed through a markup language) to reach a node in a structured document. For example, an address to each node in an email HTML node tree is one type of structured path. XPath is another example. For various types of markup languages, there may be "structured paths," including but not limited to HTML and XML.
As described above, clustering system 120 clusters documents based at least in part on classification items. In various implementations, the cluster system 120 may include a classification item engine 122 and a structured path engine 124. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 122 and/or engine 124 may be omitted. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 122 and/or engine 124 may be combined. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 122 and/or engine 124 may be performed in a component separate from cluster system 120.
Generally, the classification item engine 122 identifies a plurality of classification items indicative of a particular classification. For example, classification items indicating a "flight" classification may include "flight", "leave", "arrive", and the like. As another example, the classification items indicating the "bill" classification may include "due date", "amount", and the like. The plurality of classification items indicative of the classification may include user-provided items and/or items identified from communications already associated with the classification. In this specification, depending on the context, "item" may be used to refer to only a single item (e.g., "departure") and/or a plurality of items (e.g., "departure date"). For example, some taxonomy items may include only a single item, while other taxonomy items may include two or more items.
In some implementations of identifying classified classification items, the classification item engine 122 identifies communications from the communications database 150 that each have a tag indicating a classification, and determines one or more classification items based on the identified communications of the tags. In some of these implementations, the one or more tags can be based on the name of a folder that is already associated with the tagged communication. For example, the indicia of a given email received by a user may be based on the name of the inbox folder in which the user stored the given email. For example, the flag may be based on "received" where the user stored the given email in a "received" subfolder. As another example, the tag may be based on a "ship" for which the user stored the given email in a "flights" subfolder (e.g., based on a "yes" or other relationship between the tag "ship" and the item "flights").
In some implementations, the one or more tags may be based on annotations to the tagged communication by a user receiving the tagged communication. For example, the email client may provide the user with the option to annotate the email with one or more indicia (e.g., user-defined indicia (e.g., typed or otherwise input by the user) and/or from a defined set of indicia (e.g., including "received," "travel," "personal"). for example, the indicia may be "received" based on the user annotating the email as "received" email, as another example, the indicia may be "bill" based on the user annotating the email as "cable bill" email. In some of these implementations, the one or more indicia may be based on indicia assigned by the other individual.
The classification item engine 122 may utilize various techniques to select classification items indicative of a classification from the identified tag communications having tags indicative of a classification. For example, classification engine 122 can select a classification item from the tagged communication based on one or more factors, such as a frequency-inverse document frequency (TFIDF) metric of the item in the tagged communication, a format of the item in one or more tagged communications (e.g., underlining, bolding, font size, and/or other formats of the item), a location of the item in the tagged communication (e.g., where the item appears in the communication where the item appears in the selection of the communication), and so forth. As one example, a first item having a TFIDF metric indicating that the item occurs relatively frequently in emails indicating a classification is more likely to be selected as a classification item than a second item having a TFIDF metric indicating that the item occurs relatively infrequently in emails having a flag indicating a classification than a frequency of occurrence in a larger corpus (e.g., all emails). As another example, if present in at least a threshold number of emails with a flag indicating classification; frequently at the beginning or other portion of a paragraph of an email having a tag indicating a classification; and/or often provided with a format that is unique to the format of the surrounding items in the e-mail, the items may be discretely selected as classified items.
As yet another example, a weight of an item may be determined based on one or more factors related to the occurrence of the item in the email with the flag indicating the classification, and the weight may be compared to a threshold to determine whether to select the item. In some of these implementations, automatic thresholding techniques can be utilized to determine which items to select for classification based on weights associated with those items. In some of these implementations, the one or more factors on which the weight of the item may be based may include, for example: TFIDF metrics of items in an email having a tag indicating a classification; the number of emails in which the item appears (with a flag indicating classification); a number of item occurrences in the email with a flag indicating a classification; the number of item occurrences at the beginning of a paragraph or other portion of the email with a marker indicating a classification; and/or the format of the item in an email with a tag indicating the classification.
In some implementations, determining the occurrence of one or more classification items in the documents of the cluster includes matching the one or more classification items to one or more items in each communication of the cluster. Cluster system 120 may employ exact matching and/or soft matching. Examples of soft matching include determining that a candidate item matches a classified item based on the candidate item being a synonym for the classified item, the candidate item and the classified item having the same canonical form, and/or based on other similarity measures between items. The items matched in the communication may be items from the subject and/or body of the communication. As one example, a cluster of structured communications indicating a "flight" classification may be determined, which includes structured communications that each include the classification items "flight", "leave", and "arrive" in the communication subject.
In some implementations, the documents analyzed by cluster system 120 include or are limited to structured documents. In some of these implementations, clustering system 120 also determines a document cluster based on the structured path of the structured document such that structured documents that include the same and/or similar structured paths are included in the cluster. For example, the document may be a structured email, and the cluster may be determined such that only emails having the same and/or similar structured paths are included in the cluster. In some implementations, clustering system 120 determines an initial cluster based on the occurrence of one or more classification items in a cluster document. Clustering system 120 then determines one or more clusters by clustering the documents of the initial cluster based on the structured paths of those documents, each cluster being a subset of the initial cluster. In some implementations, clustering system 120 determines one or more clusters of documents while considering the classification items of the documents and the structured paths of the documents.
In general, structured path engine 124 identifies one or more characteristics of a structured path of a structured document for clustering of documents based on the structured path by clustering system 120. For example, structured path engine 124 can generate structured path feature vectors for a plurality of structured communications. Each structured path feature vector may indicate one or more attributes of a structured path of the corresponding structured communication. The attributes of the structured path may include, for example, attributes indicating a hierarchy of the structured path, a node type of one or more nodes of the structured path, a value of one or more nodes of the structured path, and the like. Cluster system 120 may determine the structured communications to include in a given cluster based on similarities between the structured path feature vectors of the structured communications. Exact and/or soft matching of the structured path feature vectors or other representations of the structured path may be utilized.
In some implementations, the clusters of communications determined by the cluster engine 120 in accordance with the techniques described herein may include clusters that are not limited to communications from the same sending entity and/or containing the same or similar "topics". In other words, the determined cluster may include communications from multiple sending entities and/or communications with different "topics". For example, an email from company a (e.g., from the configuration @ company email. com) and an email from company B (e.g., from the flights @ company B. com) may both be included in the cluster. For example, where a cluster is determined based on classification items and structured paths, emails from company a and company B that are included in the cluster may share one or more of the same classification items and share the same and/or similar structured paths. Further, for example, both a first email with the topic of "flight confirmation" and a second email with the topic of "your reservation" may be included in the cluster.
Each cluster determined by clustering system 120 includes documents that generally correspond to a particular classification and optionally generally include the same or similar structured paths. The parameters utilized by the clustering system 120 may be set to perform a desired degree of correspondence between the clustered documents. For example, the number and/or percentage of classified items that must appear in a given document to include the document in a given cluster may be set to perform a desired degree of correspondence of the document with the classification corresponding to the classified items. Further, for example, a similarity metric between the structured paths of the documents may be set to perform a desired degree of correspondence between the structured paths of the documents of a given cluster. In some implementations, cluster system 120 may use the same parameters for all classifications and/or all iterations. In some implementations, the parameters may be different for one or more classifications and/or iterations.
In some implementations, clustering system 120 may optionally cluster the documents into one or more clusters using one or more clustering algorithms. For example, k-means clustering may be used to determine clusters based on classification terms, where "k" is set to 2. In general, k-means clustering is intended to segment observations into groups, where each observation is included in the group with which it is most relevant (e.g., based on the presence or absence of a classification item). Further, for example, in some implementations, x-means clustering may be utilized in determining clusters based on structured paths. In general, x-means clustering is an unsupervised method to find an ideal k for k-means clustering. Additional and/or alternative clustering techniques may optionally be used.
As described above, the clustered feature system 130 determines a feature set of one or more features based at least in part on the clustered documents determined by the clustering system 120. The cluster feature system 130 also assigns a feature set to an indication of the classification with which the classification item is associated (utilized by the cluster system 120 in determining the cluster). For example, a feature set may be assigned to an indication of a classification and a feature set, and an association with the indication may be stored in the feature database 152.
In some implementations, the determined feature set can be assigned to the indication of the classification such that other communications that include features that are the same and/or similar to features of the feature set are associated with the indication of the classification. For example, the indication of the classification may be an identifier of the classification, and future communications having at least a threshold level of similarity to a set of features assigned to the indication of the classification may be automatically assigned the identifier of the classification. For example, a feature vector for a future communication that includes structural and/or item features of the future communication may be determined and compared to the feature vector assigned to the classification to determine whether the future communication has at least a threshold level of similarity to the feature vector assigned to the classification. Additionally, for example, the indication of the classification can be an identifier of a data extraction parser corresponding to the classification, and future communications having at least a threshold level of similarity to the set of features assigned to the classification indication can be parsed by the data extraction parser corresponding to the classification. For example, a "flight" data extraction parser may be selected (e.g., configured to extract departure date/time, departure airport, arrival date/time, etc.) for parsing emails based on determining that the emails are associated with a "flight" classification.
As detailed below, in some implementations, one or more features of the feature set are based on content of the clustered structured documents in addition to the classification items used to determine the clusters. For example, for a "flight" classification, the item features of the feature set may be based on the item "passenger" (which is not a "classified item") which is based on items that occur relatively frequently in the communication of the cluster compared to the overall popularity of the item. Further, for example, for a "flight" classification, the structured features of the feature set may be based on the structured path of one or more of the clustered documents.
In various implementations, clustered feature system 130 may include a project feature engine 132 and a structured feature engine 134. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 132 and/or engine 134 may be omitted. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 132 and/or engine 134 may be combined. In some implementations, all or aspects of engine 132 and/or engine 134 may be performed in a component separate from clustered feature system 130.
In general, the item feature engine 132 determines one or more item features of a feature set based at least in part on items included in documents of a cluster determined by the cluster system 120. For example, the item features can include features related to one or more items selected based on TFIDF metrics of the clustered items, formats of items in one or more documents of the cluster (e.g., underlined, bolded, font-sized, and/or other format items), locations of items in the documents of the cluster (e.g., where the items appear in the communication, where the items appear in a segment of the communication), and so forth. As one example, a first item having a TFIDF metric indicating that the item occurs relatively frequently in emails of a cluster of emails is more likely to be selected as the item on which the item feature is based than a second item having a TFIDF metric indicating that the item occurs relatively infrequently in the cluster than its frequency of occurrence in a larger corpus (e.g., all emails).
In some implementations, one or more items on which item features are based may additionally or alternatively be selected based at least in part on human or other item tags for a given classification, where the item tags indicate the importance of the items to the classification. For example, certain items may be labeled as important for classification, and based on such labeling, items that are more likely to be selected on which the item features are based, rather than items that are labeled as important for classification. In some of these implementations, one or more items on which the item features are based may be selected based at least in part on the indicia indicating the importance of the item to the classification and based at least in part on one or more factors related to the occurrence of the item in the clustered document.
In some implementations, the item feature engine 132 can determine a weight for an item based on one or more of the factors described above and utilize the determined weight to select one or more items on which the item feature is based. For example, items with the top X weights may be selected, and/or items with weights that satisfy a threshold may be selected. In some of those implementations, the one or more factors on which the weight of the item is based may include, for example: human markers or other markers of an item for a given classification, which indicate the importance of the item to the classification; TFIDF measures of items in the clustered documents; the number of documents of the cluster in which the project appears; the number of occurrences of the item in the clustered documents; the number of occurrences at the beginning or other portion of a paragraph of a document of an item cluster; and/or the format of the items in the clustered documents.
The items on which the item features are based may include one or more classification items used to determine the structured communication collection and/or additional items. In some implementations, the item feature may optionally include an indication of one or more structured paths in which the item appears in one or more communications of the cluster. For example, if a "passenger" occurs only in a particular XPath of a communication of a cluster, the item feature of the "passenger" may include an indication of the item and an indication of the particular XPath. Further, for example, if a "passenger" occurs at a first rate in a first XPath of communications of a cluster and at a second rate in a second XPath of communications of the cluster, the item characteristics of the "passenger" may include an indication of the items and an indication of a particular occurrence rate in each XPath (as well as indications of those XPaths).
In some implementations, the item features of the feature set can be associated with weights that indicate a strength of association of the item features with the feature set. For example, for the immediately preceding "passenger" example, the item feature associated with "passenger" of a first XPath may be assigned a first weight reflecting a first rate, and the item feature associated with "passenger" of a second XPath may be assigned a second weight reflecting a second rate. Further, for example, a first item may have a TFIDF metric indicating that the item occurs relatively frequently in emails of an email cluster, and a second item may have a TFIDF metric indicating that the group occurs relatively infrequently in emails of the emails. Based at least on the different TFIDF metrics, a first item feature based on the first item may be assigned a first weight indicating a greater strength of association with the feature set than a second weight assigned to a second item feature based on the second item.
In general, structured feature engine 134 determines one or more structured features of a feature set based on the structured path of the clustered documents determined by clustering system 120. Each structured feature may indicate one or more attributes of a structured path of documents for a given cluster. The attributes of the structured path may include, for example, attributes indicating a hierarchy of the structured path, a node type of one or more nodes of the structured path, a value of one or more nodes of the structured path, and the like. As one example, a cluster may comprise structured XML emails, and the structured features may indicate one or more signature XPaths based on frequency of occurrence of XPaths in the structured XML emails of the cluster.
In some implementations, the structured features of the feature set may be associated with weights that indicate a strength of association of the structured features with the feature set. For example, a first structural feature may indicate an attribute of a structured path of a clustered document that occurs in 80% of the clustered documents, while a second structural feature may indicate an attribute of a structured path of a clustered document that occurs in 50% of the clustered documents. Based at least on the different rates of occurrence, a first weight may be assigned to the first structured feature that indicates an association with the feature set of greater strength than a second weight assigned to the second structured feature.
In some implementations, one or more structured paths on which the structured features are based can additionally or alternatively be selected based at least in part on human or other indicia of the structured paths that indicate the importance of the structured paths. For example, certain structured paths may be labeled as important in their entirety and/or for a given classification, and based on such labeling, structured paths that are more likely to be selected on which to base a structured feature than structured paths that are not labeled as important. In some of these implementations, one or more structured paths on which the structured features are based may be selected based at least in part on the indicia indicating the importance of the structured paths, and based at least in part on one or more factors related to the occurrence of the structured paths in the cluster file.
Fig. 2 shows an example of how communication clusters may be determined and the feature set may be determined based on the clusters. The clustering system 120 identifies classification items associated with a particular classification and determines clusters of communications from the communications of the communications database 150. For example, the classification may be "received," and the classification items may include items such as "purchase," total, "" payment, "and" date. In some implementations, cluster system 120 may determine classification items based on an analysis of communications from communications database 150 that utilize classification tags.
The clustering system 120 provides an indication of the clustering and classification to the cluster feature system 130. The clustered feature system 130 determines a feature set of one or more features based on the content of the clustered documents and assigns the feature set to an indication of a classification. The clustered feature system 130 stores the feature sets and associations with the indications in the feature database 152 for use by one or more additional components, such as the classification system 140. The feature set includes one or more features of the cluster-based communication content in addition to the classification items used by the cluster system 120 to determine the clusters. In some implementations, the feature set includes one or more item features of communication items of the cluster-based communication. As an example, and continuing the previous example, the item features may be based on items such as "thank you," "qty," "taxes," and/or other items of the communication of the cluster. In some implementations, the feature set includes one or more structured features of a structured path of the cluster-based communication. One or more item features and/or structured features may optionally be associated with a weight indicating the strength of association of the feature with the feature set.
Referring again to FIG. 1, as described above, classification system 140 compares the determined feature set to the content of additional documents to determine other documents associated with the indication of classification. For example, classification system 140 may receive future communications from communication database 150, client computing devices, and/or other components. For each future communication, classification system 140 may determine structural and/or item features based on the content of the communication and compare these features to a set of features stored in feature database 152. The classification system 140 may utilize techniques similar to those for determining the structural and/or project characterization of communications with respect to the cluster characterization system 130.
In some implementations, the data extraction parser associated with the cluster-based determined feature set may be a cluster-configuration based data extraction parser. For example, a cluster may be a cluster of structured communications determined by cluster system 120 based on the occurrence of classified items in the cluster's communications and based on the structured path of the cluster's structured communications (such that the cluster's communications have the same or similar structured path). The data extraction parser may be determined based on a cluster using various techniques. For example, one or more structured paths of communication of a cluster may be classified as "transient," e.g., based on one or more determinations that the number of occurrences of one or more segments of text corresponding to those structured paths across a particular cluster satisfies a criterion (e.g., below a frequency threshold ═ transient). One or more structured paths of the set of structured paths may also be classified as "fixed," e.g., based on one or more determinations that the number of occurrences of one or more text snippets corresponding to those structured paths that span a particular cluster do not satisfy the criterion (e.g., above a frequency threshold of "fixed"). The data extraction parser can be configured with a transient structured path to extract data from future structured communications. For example, the data extraction parser may be configured to extract data from the transient structured paths, as those are paths that "change" in structured communications about the cluster and may contain content desired to be extracted.
Fig. 3 illustrates an example of how an indication of a classification of a communication may be determined based on a comparison of the content of the communication with a set of features associated with the indication. Classification system 140 identifies a communication 150A from a communication database 150, a client computing device, or another component. The classification system 140 determines structural and/or item features of the communication 150A and compares these features to each of one or more feature sets stored in the feature database 152 and selects the feature set or feature sets that are most similar to the features of the communication 150A. For example, in some implementations, each feature set of the feature database 152 may be represented as a feature vector. Classification system 140 may determine a communication feature vector that includes structural and/or item features of communication 150A and compare the communication feature vector to each of one or more feature vectors of feature database 152.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating an example method of determining a cluster of communications and determining a feature set based on the cluster. For convenience, the operations of the flow diagrams are described with reference to a system that performs the operations. The system may include various components of various computer systems. For example, some operations may be performed by one or more components of the clustering system 120 and/or the clustered feature system 130, such as the classification project engine 122, the structured path engine 124, the project feature engine 132, and/or the structured feature engine 134. Further, while the operations of the method of FIG. 4 are shown in a particular order, this is not meant to be limiting. One or more operations may be reordered, omitted, or added.
At step 400, classification items indicative of a classification are identified. For example, the classification may be "received," and the classification items may include items such as "purchase," total, "" payment, "and" date. The plurality of classification items indicative of the classification may include user-provided items and/or items identified from communications already associated with the classification. In some implementations, the system identifies communications of the tags from the communications database 150, each having a tag indicating a classification, and determines one or more classification items based on the identified communications of the tags. In some of these implementations, the one or more tags may be based on a name of a folder associated with the tagged communication, and/or the one or more tags may be based on an annotation of the tagged communication by a user of the received tagged communication.
At step 405, a communication corpus is identified. For example, the system may identify all communications, or a subset of communications, from the communications database 150. The identified subset may be, for example, a subset that includes only structured communications or a subset that includes only communications from a certain time period and/or geographic area. Other subsets of communications may be identified as corpora based on additional or alternative parameters.
At step 410, a cluster of communications is determined based on the classification item. For example, the system may determine the cluster based on the occurrence of one or more classification items in the communication of the cluster and/or based on a structured path of the structured communication of the cluster. As one example, and continuing with the example of step 400, the system may determine clusters based on occurrences of a set of one or more of "buy", "sum", "pay", and "date" in the communication and/or determine clusters based on similarities between structured paths of the cluster's communication. As described herein, the cluster determined by the system may include one or more communications from the communications database 150 that have not previously utilized an indicator of classification. As also described herein, the determined cluster may include communications from multiple sending entities and/or communications having different "topics".
At step 415, a feature set is determined based on the communication of the cluster. The feature set includes the content of the cluster-based communication and one or more features other than the classification item used to determine the cluster at step 410. In some implementations, the feature set includes one or more item features of communication items of the cluster-based communication. As an example, and continuing the previous example, the item features may be based on items such as "thank you," "qty," "taxes," and/or other items of communication of the cluster. In some implementations, the feature set includes one or more structured features of a structured path of the cluster-based communication. One or more item features and/or structured features may optionally be associated with a weight indicating the strength of association of the feature with the feature set.
At step 420, a feature set is assigned to the indication of classification. The system may store the feature set and the association with the indication in the feature database 152 for use by one or more additional components, such as the classification system 140.
In this specification, the term "database" will be used broadly to refer to any collection of data. The data of the database need not be structured in any particular way or at all, and it may be stored on a storage device in one or more locations. Thus, for example, databases 152 and/or 154 may each include multiple data sets, each of which may be organized and accessed differently. Further, for example, all or portions of databases 152 and/or 154 may be combined into one database and/or may contain pointers and/or other links between entries in the database. Furthermore, in this specification, the term "item" will be used broadly to refer to any mapping of a plurality of associated information items. A single entry need not exist in a single storage device and may include pointers or other indications of information items that may exist on other storage devices. For example, the entries identifying the feature set and the assigned indication of the classification in the feature database 152 may include a plurality of nodes mapped to one another, where each node includes an identifier of an entity or other item of information that may be present in another data structure and/or another storage medium.
In cases where the system described herein collects or may utilize personal information about a user, the user may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information (e.g., about the user's social network, social actions or activities, profession, the user's preferences, or the user's current geographic location), or whether and/or how to receive content from a content server that may be more relevant to the user. Further, certain data may be processed in one or more ways before it is stored or used, thereby removing personally identifiable information. For example, the identity of the user may be processed such that personally identifiable information cannot be determined for the user, or the geographic location of the user may be summarized where geographic location information is obtained (e.g., at a city, zip code, or state level) such that a particular geographic location of the user cannot be determined. Thus, the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and/or usage.
Fig. 5 is a block diagram of an example computer system 510. Computer system 510 typically includes at least one processor 514 that communicates with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem 512. These peripheral devices may include a storage subsystem 524, including, for example, a memory subsystem 525 and a file storage subsystem 526, a user interface output device 520, a user interface input device 522, and a network interface subsystem 516. The input and output devices allow a user to interact with computer system 510. Network interface subsystem 516 provides an interface and couples to corresponding interface devices in other computer systems.
The user interface input devices 522 may include a keyboard, a pointing device such as a mouse, trackball, touchpad, or tablet, a scanner, a touch screen incorporated into a display, an audio input device such as a voice recognition system, microphone, and/or other types of input devices. In general, use of the term "input device" is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information to computer system 510 or on a communication network.
User interface output devices 520 may include a display subsystem, a printer, a facsimile machine, or a non-visual display such as an audio output device. The display subsystem may include a Cathode Ray Tube (CRT), a flat panel device such as a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), a projection device, or some other mechanism for producing a visible image. The display subsystem may also provide non-visual displays, for example, via an audio output device. In general, use of the term "output device" is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system 510 to a user or to another machine or computer system.
These software modules are typically executed by the processor 517 alone or in combination with other processors. Memory 525 used in the storage subsystem may include a number of memories, including a main Random Access Memory (RAM)530 for storing instructions and data during program execution and a Read Only Memory (ROM)532 in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem 526 may provide persistent storage for program and data files, and may include a hard disk drive, a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media, a CD-ROM drive, an optical drive, or removable media cartridges. Modules that perform certain performed functions may be stored by file storage subsystem 526 in storage subsystem 527 or other machine accessible by processor 517.
Although several implementations have been described and illustrated herein, various other means and/or structures for performing the function and/or obtaining the result and/or one or more of the advantages described herein may be used, and such variations and or modifications are to be considered within the scope of the implementations described herein. More generally, all parameters, dimensions, materials, and configurations described herein are intended to be exemplary, and the actual parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend on the specific application or uses for which the teachings are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific implementations described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing implementations are presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto, implementations may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. Implementations of the present disclosure relate to each individual feature, system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is included within the scope of the present disclosure.
Claims (26)
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of a classification;
identifying a communication corpus from one or more databases, the communication corpus comprising a plurality of communications that are not tagged with an association with the classification;
determining a cluster of communications of a cluster based on occurrences of one or more classification items in the communications;
determining a set of features based on communications of the cluster, the set of features including one or more features based on content of the communications in addition to the classification item; and
assigning the feature set and set to an indication of the classification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication of the cluster comprises a structured communication, and wherein determining the cluster of communications is further based on a structured path of the structured communication of the cluster.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the set of features comprises:
determining a structured feature of the feature based on a structured path of structured communications of the cluster.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the set of features comprises:
determining an item feature of the features based on communication items of the clustered structured communication;
wherein the one or more communication items for which the item characteristics are determined are in addition to the classification item.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the set of features comprises:
determining an item feature of the features based on communication items of the communication of the cluster;
wherein the one or more communication items for which the item characteristics are determined are in addition to the classification item.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication of the cluster comprises a structured communication, and wherein determining the set of features comprises:
determining item features of the features based on communication items of the clustered structured communication and structured paths of the clustered structured communication, wherein each of the item features indicates an item of the communication items and the one or more structured paths, wherein the item appears in the clustered structured communication.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustered communication is from a plurality of sending entities.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the classification item indicative of the classification comprises:
identifying communications having one or more tags indicating the classification;
determining the one or more classification items based on the tagged communications.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the label indicating the classification is based on a name of a folder associated with the labeled communication.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the indicia indicating the classification is based on annotations to the tagged communications by a user receiving the tagged communications.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein determining the one or more classification items based on the tagged communications comprises:
selecting the items of the classified items based on a comparison of the frequency of occurrence of the items in the tagged communications with the frequency of occurrence of the items in a larger document corpus.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication is an email.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
identifying an additional communication; and
determining that the additional communication is associated with the indication of classification based on comparing the set of features to content of the additional communication.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of the classification is a data extraction parser for the classification.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the data extraction parser is configured based on communications of the cluster.
16. A system comprising a memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory, comprising the following instructions:
identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of a classification;
identifying a communication corpus from one or more databases, the communication corpus comprising a plurality of communications that are not tagged with an association with the classification;
determining a cluster of communications of a cluster based on occurrences of the one or more classification items in the communications;
determining a set of features based on communications of the cluster, the set of features including one or more features based on content of the communications in addition to the classification item; and
assigning the set of features to an indication of the classification.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the communication of the cluster comprises a structured communication, and wherein the instructions to determine the cluster of communications further comprise instructions to determine the cluster based on a structured path of the structured communication of the cluster.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions to determine the feature set comprise:
instructions to determine a structured feature of the feature based on a structured path of structured communications of the cluster.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the instructions to determine the feature set comprise:
instructions to determine an item characteristic of the characteristic based on communication items of the cluster's structured communication;
wherein the one or more communication items for which the item characteristics are determined are in addition to the classification item.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions to determine the feature set comprise:
instructions to determine an item characteristic of the characteristics based on communication items of the communication of the cluster;
wherein the one or more communication items for which the item characteristics are determined are in addition to the classification item.
21. The system of claim 16, wherein the communication of the cluster comprises a structured communication, and wherein the instructions to determine the feature set comprise:
instructions to determine item features of the features based on communication items of the clustered structured communication and structured paths of the clustered structured communication, wherein each of the item features indicates an item of the communication items and the one or more structured paths, wherein the item appears in the clustered structured communication.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions to identify a classification item indicative of the classification comprise:
identifying communications having one or more tags indicating the classification;
determining the one or more classification items based on the tagged communications.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the label indicating the classification is based on a name of a folder associated with the labeled communication.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the indicia indicative of the classification is based on annotations to the tagged communications by a user receiving the tagged communications.
25. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions further comprise:
identifying an additional communication;
instructions to determine that the additional communication is associated with the indication of classification based on comparing the set of features to content of the additional communication.
26. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising:
identifying a plurality of classification items indicative of a classification;
identifying a communication corpus from one or more databases, the communication corpus comprising a plurality of communications that are not tagged with an association with the classification;
determining a cluster of communications of a cluster based on occurrences of the one or more classification items in the communications;
determining a set of features based on communications of the cluster, the set of features including one or more features based on content of the communications in addition to the classification item; and
assigning the set of features to an indication of the classification.
Applications Claiming Priority (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
PCT/CN2014/086875 WO2016041181A1 (en) | 2014-09-18 | 2014-09-18 | Clustering communications based on classification |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN106471490A CN106471490A (en) | 2017-03-01 |
CN106471490B true CN106471490B (en) | 2020-09-04 |
Family
ID=55532467
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201480080324.9A Active CN106471490B (en) | 2014-09-18 | 2014-09-18 | Classification-based group communication |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US10007717B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP3195147A4 (en) |
CN (1) | CN106471490B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2016041181A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (17)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US10740692B2 (en) | 2017-10-17 | 2020-08-11 | Servicenow, Inc. | Machine-learning and deep-learning techniques for predictive ticketing in information technology systems |
US11416325B2 (en) | 2012-03-13 | 2022-08-16 | Servicenow, Inc. | Machine-learning and deep-learning techniques for predictive ticketing in information technology systems |
US10600002B2 (en) | 2016-08-04 | 2020-03-24 | Loom Systems LTD. | Machine learning techniques for providing enriched root causes based on machine-generated data |
US10789119B2 (en) | 2016-08-04 | 2020-09-29 | Servicenow, Inc. | Determining root-cause of failures based on machine-generated textual data |
US10963634B2 (en) * | 2016-08-04 | 2021-03-30 | Servicenow, Inc. | Cross-platform classification of machine-generated textual data |
US10657158B2 (en) * | 2016-11-23 | 2020-05-19 | Google Llc | Template-based structured document classification and extraction |
US10909156B2 (en) | 2017-02-10 | 2021-02-02 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Search and filtering of message content |
US10911389B2 (en) | 2017-02-10 | 2021-02-02 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Rich preview of bundled content |
US10498684B2 (en) | 2017-02-10 | 2019-12-03 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Automated bundling of content |
US10931617B2 (en) * | 2017-02-10 | 2021-02-23 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Sharing of bundled content |
US10911570B2 (en) * | 2017-11-02 | 2021-02-02 | Utech, Inc. | System and method for content parsing |
US11521108B2 (en) | 2018-07-30 | 2022-12-06 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Privacy-preserving labeling and classification of email |
CN109614978A (en) * | 2018-09-29 | 2019-04-12 | 阿里巴巴集团控股有限公司 | Data processing method, device, equipment and computer readable storage medium |
US10977738B2 (en) | 2018-12-27 | 2021-04-13 | Futurity Group, Inc. | Systems, methods, and platforms for automated quality management and identification of errors, omissions and/or deviations in coordinating services and/or payments responsive to requests for coverage under a policy |
US20220237219A1 (en) * | 2019-06-14 | 2022-07-28 | Nippon Telegraph And Telephone Corporation | Information extracting device, information extracting method, and information extracting program |
US11544795B2 (en) | 2021-02-09 | 2023-01-03 | Futurity Group, Inc. | Automatically labeling data using natural language processing |
US20220269698A1 (en) * | 2021-02-19 | 2022-08-25 | International Business Machines Corporation | Phrase based unstructured content parsing |
Citations (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN103119596A (en) * | 2011-09-15 | 2013-05-22 | 株式会社东芝 | Apparatus, method and program for document classification |
CN103299293A (en) * | 2007-10-04 | 2013-09-11 | 皇家飞利浦电子股份有限公司 | Classifying a set of content items |
Family Cites Families (23)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US5819258A (en) * | 1997-03-07 | 1998-10-06 | Digital Equipment Corporation | Method and apparatus for automatically generating hierarchical categories from large document collections |
US6185550B1 (en) * | 1997-06-13 | 2001-02-06 | Sun Microsystems, Inc. | Method and apparatus for classifying documents within a class hierarchy creating term vector, term file and relevance ranking |
US7389413B2 (en) * | 1998-07-23 | 2008-06-17 | Tumbleweed Communications Corp. | Method and system for filtering communication |
US6728752B1 (en) * | 1999-01-26 | 2004-04-27 | Xerox Corporation | System and method for information browsing using multi-modal features |
US20020120619A1 (en) * | 1999-11-26 | 2002-08-29 | High Regard, Inc. | Automated categorization, placement, search and retrieval of user-contributed items |
US6751621B1 (en) * | 2000-01-27 | 2004-06-15 | Manning & Napier Information Services, Llc. | Construction of trainable semantic vectors and clustering, classification, and searching using trainable semantic vectors |
EP1156430A2 (en) * | 2000-05-17 | 2001-11-21 | Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. | Information retrieval system |
US7024400B2 (en) * | 2001-05-08 | 2006-04-04 | Sunflare Co., Ltd. | Differential LSI space-based probabilistic document classifier |
US20050060287A1 (en) * | 2003-05-16 | 2005-03-17 | Hellman Ziv Z. | System and method for automatic clustering, sub-clustering and cluster hierarchization of search results in cross-referenced databases using articulation nodes |
US20050228790A1 (en) * | 2004-04-12 | 2005-10-13 | Christopher Ronnewinkel | Coherent categorization scheme |
US20060288275A1 (en) * | 2005-06-20 | 2006-12-21 | Xerox Corporation | Method for classifying sub-trees in semi-structured documents |
CN1333336C (en) * | 2006-06-23 | 2007-08-22 | 清华大学 | Method for unified management of component library supporting heterogeneous component |
US20090006391A1 (en) * | 2007-06-27 | 2009-01-01 | T Reghu Ram | Automatic categorization of document through tagging |
US8200601B2 (en) * | 2009-05-26 | 2012-06-12 | Microsoft Corporation | Boosting to determine indicative features from a training set |
US8346898B2 (en) * | 2009-12-29 | 2013-01-01 | International Business Machines Corporation | Automated relationship classification |
US9928244B2 (en) * | 2010-05-18 | 2018-03-27 | Integro, Inc. | Electronic document classification |
US8745091B2 (en) * | 2010-05-18 | 2014-06-03 | Integro, Inc. | Electronic document classification |
US20120041955A1 (en) * | 2010-08-10 | 2012-02-16 | Nogacom Ltd. | Enhanced identification of document types |
US8903825B2 (en) * | 2011-05-24 | 2014-12-02 | Namesforlife Llc | Semiotic indexing of digital resources |
US20140115483A1 (en) * | 2012-10-18 | 2014-04-24 | Aol Inc. | Systems and methods for processing and organizing electronic content |
US9317594B2 (en) * | 2012-12-27 | 2016-04-19 | Sas Institute Inc. | Social community identification for automatic document classification |
US20150149461A1 (en) * | 2013-11-24 | 2015-05-28 | Interstack, Inc | System and method for analyzing unstructured data on applications, devices or networks |
US20150186494A1 (en) * | 2013-12-31 | 2015-07-02 | Google Inc. | Systems and methods for message categorization management |
-
2014
- 2014-09-18 EP EP14901880.6A patent/EP3195147A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2014-09-18 US US14/414,855 patent/US10007717B2/en active Active
- 2014-09-18 CN CN201480080324.9A patent/CN106471490B/en active Active
- 2014-09-18 WO PCT/CN2014/086875 patent/WO2016041181A1/en active Application Filing
Patent Citations (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN103299293A (en) * | 2007-10-04 | 2013-09-11 | 皇家飞利浦电子股份有限公司 | Classifying a set of content items |
CN103119596A (en) * | 2011-09-15 | 2013-05-22 | 株式会社东芝 | Apparatus, method and program for document classification |
Non-Patent Citations (2)
Title |
---|
clustering based two-stage text classification requiring minimal training data;Xue Zhang 等;《2012International conference on systems and informatics》;20120625;第2233-2237页 * |
Text classification from labeled and unlabeled documents using EM;Kamal Nigam 等;《Machine Learning - special issue on information retrieval》;20000630;第39卷(第2期);第103-134页 * |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
CN106471490A (en) | 2017-03-01 |
US10007717B2 (en) | 2018-06-26 |
WO2016041181A1 (en) | 2016-03-24 |
US20160314182A1 (en) | 2016-10-27 |
EP3195147A1 (en) | 2017-07-26 |
EP3195147A4 (en) | 2018-03-14 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN106471490B (en) | Classification-based group communication | |
CN108108387B (en) | Template-based structured document classification and extraction | |
US11575628B2 (en) | Methods and apparatus for determining non-textual reply content for inclusion in a reply to an electronic communication | |
US11516156B2 (en) | Determining reply content for a reply to an electronic communication | |
US11599716B2 (en) | Systems and methods for annotating and linking electronic documents | |
US10216838B1 (en) | Generating and applying data extraction templates | |
US10360537B1 (en) | Generating and applying event data extraction templates | |
US11010547B2 (en) | Generating and applying outgoing communication templates | |
US10216837B1 (en) | Selecting pattern matching segments for electronic communication clustering | |
CN112100216A (en) | Creative keyword processing method and device | |
US20190018893A1 (en) | Determining tone differential of a segment | |
KR20130007244A (en) | Method, system and computer readable recording medium for extracting of summary e-mail of same subject |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |