CN104169910B - The method of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content item that user for assessing geo-location generates - Google Patents
The method of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content item that user for assessing geo-location generates Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN104169910B CN104169910B CN201280064820.6A CN201280064820A CN104169910B CN 104169910 B CN104169910 B CN 104169910B CN 201280064820 A CN201280064820 A CN 201280064820A CN 104169910 B CN104169910 B CN 104169910B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- content item
- user
- generation
- viewing
- entropy
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/43—Processing of content or additional data, e.g. demultiplexing additional data from a digital video stream; Elementary client operations, e.g. monitoring of home network or synchronising decoder's clock; Client middleware
- H04N21/442—Monitoring of processes or resources, e.g. detecting the failure of a recording device, monitoring the downstream bandwidth, the number of times a movie has been viewed, the storage space available from the internal hard disk
- H04N21/44204—Monitoring of content usage, e.g. the number of times a movie has been viewed, copied or the amount which has been watched
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/953—Querying, e.g. by the use of web search engines
- G06F16/9537—Spatial or temporal dependent retrieval, e.g. spatiotemporal queries
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L67/00—Network arrangements or protocols for supporting network services or applications
- H04L67/50—Network services
- H04L67/52—Network services specially adapted for the location of the user terminal
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/251—Learning process for intelligent management, e.g. learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/252—Processing of multiple end-users' preferences to derive collaborative data
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/254—Management at additional data server, e.g. shopping server, rights management server
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25808—Management of client data
- H04N21/25841—Management of client data involving the geographical location of the client
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25866—Management of end-user data
- H04N21/25891—Management of end-user data being end-user preferences
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/27—Server based end-user applications
- H04N21/274—Storing end-user multimedia data in response to end-user request, e.g. network recorder
- H04N21/2743—Video hosting of uploaded data from client
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/41—Structure of client; Structure of client peripherals
- H04N21/422—Input-only peripherals, i.e. input devices connected to specially adapted client devices, e.g. global positioning system [GPS]
- H04N21/42202—Input-only peripherals, i.e. input devices connected to specially adapted client devices, e.g. global positioning system [GPS] environmental sensors, e.g. for detecting temperature, luminosity, pressure, earthquakes
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/43—Processing of content or additional data, e.g. demultiplexing additional data from a digital video stream; Elementary client operations, e.g. monitoring of home network or synchronising decoder's clock; Client middleware
- H04N21/442—Monitoring of processes or resources, e.g. detecting the failure of a recording device, monitoring the downstream bandwidth, the number of times a movie has been viewed, the storage space available from the internal hard disk
- H04N21/44213—Monitoring of end-user related data
- H04N21/44222—Analytics of user selections, e.g. selection of programs or purchase activity
- H04N21/44224—Monitoring of user activity on external systems, e.g. Internet browsing
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/45—Management operations performed by the client for facilitating the reception of or the interaction with the content or administrating data related to the end-user or to the client device itself, e.g. learning user preferences for recommending movies, resolving scheduling conflicts
- H04N21/4508—Management of client data or end-user data
- H04N21/4524—Management of client data or end-user data involving the geographical location of the client
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/60—Network structure or processes for video distribution between server and client or between remote clients; Control signalling between clients, server and network components; Transmission of management data between server and client, e.g. sending from server to client commands for recording incoming content stream; Communication details between server and client
- H04N21/65—Transmission of management data between client and server
- H04N21/658—Transmission by the client directed to the server
- H04N21/6582—Data stored in the client, e.g. viewing habits, hardware capabilities, credit card number
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/80—Generation or processing of content or additional data by content creator independently of the distribution process; Content per se
- H04N21/83—Generation or processing of protective or descriptive data associated with content; Content structuring
- H04N21/84—Generation or processing of descriptive data, e.g. content descriptors
Abstract
Propose to assess the mechanism of the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of user's generation of geo-location.A kind of user-generated content project for receiving the metadata in the geographical position of the content item with instruction user generation to assess the method for the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of the user of geo-location generation to include, determine the geographical position metadata of each in multiple viewings of content item, by dividing the repeatedly viewing across multiple geographic areas while the geographical position of content item is considered to calculate the viewing geography entropy of content item, and the geographical entropy of viewing calculated of content item is provided to be presented in the visual display as a part for the analysis report of content item.
Description
Technical field
Embodiments of the invention are related to shared content hosting platform field, and relate more specifically to assess geo-location
The mechanism of the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of user's generation.
Background technology
In history, media content is distributed to user via large media tissue (for example, TV channels, newspaper etc.), this is big
Type media organization issues new content in a controlled manner usually by regional market by customer segment.Therefore, video popularity is very
It is global phenomenon less, because user can not access identical content in the whole world.With the arrival of Online Video shared platform,
These region sexual dysfunctions have been removed so that all the elements project can be from global access.
Research has shown that the video popularity in video shared platform illustrates " long-tail " behavior, wherein, some videos
It can accumulate hundreds of millions viewing, and most of viewings that can only attract minority.However, this unbalance Inclined Service of video popularity
In following purpose：User it can be found that and appreciate millions of individual videos of the alcove theme interested on its, even if each single
Only video may not all produce many overall viewings.
The geo-relevance of video can influence the powerful factor of video popularity.For example, similar to motion, politics with
And the theme of news is intended to have spatial focal point interested.In addition, language and culture also tend to constrain video to global view
Many propagation.Similarly, the geographic range of video may be constrained in the web user in limited geographic area well.In addition,
Geographic locality also has an impact to system and infrastructure.Understand how and where user watches regarding in video shared platform
Frequency is useful in multiple fields, such as builds the predictive module and commending system of user interest.In a similar manner, it is geographical
Locality can influence geographical distribution content delivery system and data center.
Some video shared platforms have been provided for allowing the user of video shared platform to see the video observing decomposed by country
See.However, these technologies do not account for being attached to video geographical position in itself and video partly contrasts global prevalence
Degree.
The content of the invention
In one embodiment it is proposed that to assess the machine of the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of the user of geo-location generation
System.The method of embodiments of the invention includes the metadata for receiving the geographical position of the content item with instruction user generation
The geographical position metadata of each in the multiple viewing of the content item and determination content item of user's generation.This method
Also include by dividing the repeatedly viewing across multiple geographic areas while the geographical position of content item is considered to calculate
The viewing geography entropy of content item.Finally, this method include provide content item the viewing geography entropy calculated so as to regarding
Feel in display and present, it is a part for the analysis report of content item.
In another embodiment of the invention, the viewing geography entropy of content item is equal to-Σi(vi/V)log(vi/(V*
di)), wherein, viThe number of the viewing received in the i of specific region, V be for content item overall total viewing it is total
Number, and diIt is geographical position and and the v of content itemiIn the associated geographic area of viewing number position between away from
From.In addition, the geographical entropy of viewing can be used to come in the range of from highly global content item to high locality content item
Content item is classified on the yardstick of variation, wherein, highly global instruction content item has one throughout multiple geographic areas
The popularity of cause, and high locality instruction content item has high popularity in single geographic area.
In an additional embodiment, the computing device of the operation for performing above-described embodiment is also achieved.In addition, in this hair
In bright embodiment, computer-readable recording medium storage is used for the method for performing the operation of above-described embodiment.
Brief description of the drawings
Accompanying drawing according to detailed description given below and according to various embodiments of the present invention, this will be more fully understood
Invention.
Fig. 1 illustrates exemplary system architecture according to an embodiment of the invention.
Fig. 2A and 2B illustrates the trend graphic user interface according to an embodiment of the invention for being presented to user
(GUI)。
Fig. 3 illustrates the independent content item for being presented to user viewing GUI according to another embodiment of the present invention.
Fig. 4 be a diagram that one embodiment of the method for the Geographic Epidemic degree for tracking geo-location user-generated content
Flow chart.
Fig. 5 be a diagram that another reality of the method for the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content that the user for comparing geo-location generates
Apply the flow chart of example.
Fig. 6 be a diagram that another reality of the method for the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content that the user for showing geo-location generates
Apply the flow chart of example.
Fig. 7 is the block diagram of the exemplary computer system of one or more of executable operation described herein.
Embodiment
Describe to assess the mechanism of the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of user's generation of geo-location.User generates interior
Appearance project undergoes large-scale popularity when being shared via online shared platform, asks sometimes from the whole world.Geographical position
Put the content item for being usually attached to user's generation.Embodiments of the invention propose to assess in these users generation
The Geographic Epidemic degree of appearance project so as to when on shared content hosting platform share these projects when provide on content item
Analyzing adjuncts.
It is according to an embodiment of the invention to assess the user of geo-location generation content Geographic Epidemic degree side
Method includes receiving the content item of user's generation, and it has the metadata in the geographical position of the content item of instruction user generation.
This method is it is then determined that the geographical position metadata of each viewing for content item.Then, this method calculates content item
Viewing geography entropy measurement.While the geographical position of content item is considered, by dividing content item across multiple geographic areas
Purpose viewing is measured to calculate the geographical entropy of viewing.Finally, this method provide content item the viewing geography entropy calculated so as to
Presented in visual display.In certain embodiments, visual display is to be presented to shared content hosting via user interface (UI)
A part for the analysis report of the content item of the terminal user of platform.
When describing certain embodiments of the present invention, the content of user's generation is quoted in terms of video.However, the present invention
Embodiment is also equally applicable to the content of other kinds of user's generation, such as photo, document, music and user Ke Sheng
Into any other type media.
Fig. 1 illustrates exemplary system architecture 100 according to an embodiment of the invention.System 100 is included in shared
Hold hosted platform 107, it includes front-end server 110, Analysis server 120, search engine 130 and content data base 140.
In addition, one or more client/user equipment 105 are put down by network 102 via front-end server 110 and shared content hosting
Platform 107 communicates.In one embodiment, network 102 may include internet.In other embodiments, can be used wired and wireless
Other networks, such as in-house network, LAN (LAN), wide area network (WAN), cellular network or radio network.
Client/user equipment 105 can be any kind of computing device, such as including processor, computer-readable
The equipment of medium and memory.In certain embodiments, client/user equipment 105 can be carrying out being suitable for passing through because
Special net related protocol (such as TCP/IP and HTTP) and/or the browser application or other application for showing user interface.Although
Single client/user equipment 105 is illustrate only in Fig. 1, but system 100 can be supported and many client/user equipment 105
A large amount of concurrent sessions.
In addition, embodiments of the invention can operate in individual server equipment or multiple server apparatus.Although in Fig. 1
Each middle by front-end server 110, Analysis server 120, search engine 130 and content data base 140 is described as
Single different parts, but these parts can be realized together in one single or multiple distinct devices to operate together
Various combination networkings.The example of equipment may include but be not limited to server, host computer, Net-connected computer, based on process
The system and equipment of equipment and similar type.
During the operation of system 100, user is accessed in shared by network 102 via client/user equipment 105
Hold hosted platform 107.Front-end server 110 is received from client/user equipment 105 and communicated, and is correspondingly handled and/or guided
These communications.In one embodiment, front-end server 110 includes processing equipment and computer-readable memory.
Front-end server 110 may be communicatively coupled to Analysis server 120 and search engine 130.Can use hardware, software,
Firmware or above-mentioned any combinations realize Analysis server 120 and search engine 130.Front-end server 110, Analysis server
120 and search engine 130 can operate in a joint manner with to terminal user, such as utilize the user of client/user equipment 105
Shared content hosting platform 107 is provided.Terminal user can upload various contents with via shared to shared content hosting platform 107
Content hosting platform and other-end users to share.
In one embodiment, the forward end server 110 of Analysis server 120 provides Geographic Epidemic degree statistics as display
A part to the user interface (UI) of the user of client/user equipment 105.In one embodiment, user can via with
Asked in URL (URL) link of the content item of specific user's generation from shared content hosting platform 107
The content item.In certain embodiments, URL can be directly inputted by user, or search for content item by user
Result.Request to content item and then search engine 130 is forwarded to by front-end server 110, it is from content data base 140
The asked content item of retrieval.In other embodiments, user can be directly with the analysis of shared content hosting platform 107
Service.
Analysis Service can provide the user's detail statistics for the content item inquired about on user to Analysis Service.In a reality
Apply in example, Analysis server 120 provides operation and function to share the Analysis Service of content hosting platform 107.In an implementation
In example, shared content hosting platform 107 will store and be analyzed the letter that server 120 is analyzed by shared content hosting platform 107
Type notification user is ceased, and provides the user selection and exits the chance that this type of information is collected and/or shared with server.
Once asked via search engine 120 or via Analysis Service user to retrieve content item, Analysis server 120
The various evaluations of the executable metadata 150 associated with the content being retrieved are to create the detail statistics on content.One
In individual embodiment, Analysis server 120 performs the evaluation of the content metadata 150 of user's generation to determine the geography on content
The Geographic Epidemic degree of the content of position.
In one embodiment, the metadata 150 for the content item being stored in content data base 140 includes content item
Geographical position.The geographical position may include to create item destination locations, upload item destination locations and/or describe in the project interior
The position of appearance.In one embodiment, geographical position can directly be provided by the user of upload content item.In other embodiment
In, geographical position can be inferred by Internet protocol (IP) address of the user when it uploads content item.
In addition to the geographical position of project, each content item also has related viewing historical data.The viewing history
Data can be for content item the time and date of viewing of each viewing including content item, the IP associated with viewing
Location, the duration of viewing and other viewing data relevant with the type of content item.For example, if content item is to regard
Frequently, then viewing data may include where the beholder in content item makes video pause, rollback or preceding according to the mandate of user
Any time mark entered.The viewing data can also include the time mark that instruction beholder is turned off content item object time
Note.In one embodiment, it can will watch historical data and be stored together with the metadata 150 that content item is associated.Another
In one embodiment, keep dividually storing with content and its associated metadata for the viewing historical data of content item.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the viewing historical data of the geographic position data of content item and content item is divided
Analysis server 120 is used for determining the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content in the geographical position on content.Using this data, for any interior
Appearance project, can define summarize request be from close to project in itself or remote position measurement.The implementation of the present invention
Example considers how the watching request that can be used for content item across Spacial domain decomposition, to consider those regions and content item
Geographic distance between the position of itself.
For example, it is contemplated that two independent content items, both have the geographical position metadata for placing it in New York.It is false
If project 1 is received from Bostonian 20 times viewings and 80 times from Los Angeles viewings (according to the viewing of the content item
Historical data and determine).Moreover, it is assumed that project 2 receives 50 viewings from New York, from Bostonian 40 times sights
See, 5 times from London viewings and 5 viewings from Paris.Each project receives identical and always watches number
(100) differ considerably, but in terms of the local position distribution of these viewings.The Analysis server 120 of embodiments of the invention can
Make measurement associated with the two projects to protrude more viewings that project 2 receives the place from its geographic vicinity,
Or project 1 receives the viewing from geographically less diversified one group of position.
Embodiments of the invention provide instruction content item whether in the geographic area of limitation rather than the whole world is popular
Measurement, the geographical position of project is taken into account.In order that Analysis server 120 considers what is generated across on diverse location
The spatial non-uniformity of content item, can be by the measurement of independent content item and for the project in the certain distance of project in itself
The average value of same metric compare.
Description provides the list that Analysis server 120 can be applied to the formula of content item data, such as geographical position below
Metadata and viewing historical data are put, to determine the geographic metric utilized in an embodiment of the present invention.
I=geographic areas (for example, area, country or city)
viViewing number in the i of=region
diThe distance between the geographical position of=project and geographic area i position
(v1,v2,v3,…,vNThe vector of the viewing distribution of)=represent content item
Total viewing (V)：
V=∑sivi
For the total viewing number for the formula measurement content item for always watching V.
Viewing distance (D)：
D=1/V ∑sivi*di
Formula for viewing distance D measures the average distance between viewing location and item location, and it usually can
How expression project receives from remote region is watched.
Watch locality (L)：
L=1/V ∑sivi/di
Formula for watching locality L passes through to applying bigger weight and to from remote from attached perigean viewing
The viewing of distance areas applies smaller weight and comes how measure the item is watched from distant location reception.
Watch entropy (H)：
H=-∑ivi/V log(vi/V)
For watch entropy H formula measure viewing how across different zones distribution, without consideration project geographical position.
Watch geographical entropy (G)：
G=-∑ivi/V log(vi/(V*di))
Formula for watching geographical entropy G measure viewing how across different zones distributions, while consider content item destination
Manage position.
Using above-mentioned formula, Analysis server 120 can determine that a variety of measurements of the geographical diversity on content item.At this
In the embodiment of invention, Analysis server 120 then can forward end server provide these measurement so as to a variety of different lattice
Formula is presented to terminal user.Fig. 2A, 2B and 3 describe result using the geographic metric based on embodiments of the invention so as to
The exemplary UI of one or more content items is presented in terminal user.
For example, Fig. 2A and 2B illustrate the terminal that shared content platform 107 is presented to via client/user equipment 105
The exemplary trend UI200 of user.Fig. 2A, which is described, can be personalized to browse popular content in different geographic regions
The UI200 of project.User control 201,202,203 in UI200 includes drop-down menu, wherein, different stream may be selected in user
Row degree describes option, such as preferred geographical position 201, and the range of age 202 and sex 203, if such data are available
Words.Using these controls 201,202,203, terminal user ad-hoc location interested and demographics may be selected with watch for
Popular content item 205 for these indicated regions.In an embodiment of the present invention, Analysis server 120 can be directed to altogether
Enjoy each content item in content hosting platform 107 and calculate geographical entropy metric G, and then contracted using the result of this calculating
The narrow potential candidate for asking search for being used to provide in fig. 2.
Fig. 2 B, which are described, can be personalized to compare the content item of popular different groups in different geographic regions
UI200.User control 205,206,207 in UI200 includes drop-down menu and link may be selected, wherein, user may indicate that
Different popularities describes option, such as preferred geographical position 201, the range of age 202 and sex 203.Use these controls
205th, 206,207, it is popular for these particular demographics to compare that different geographic areas and demographics may be selected in user
Content item 215,216,217.In an embodiment of the present invention, Analysis server 120 can be directed to shared content hosting platform
Each content item in 107 calculates geographical entropy metric G.Then, content item constriction extremely should using the metric G of this calculating
It is included in those in each group 215,216,217.Then the result of this filtering, such as institute in fig. 2b can be shown in UI
The UI200 shown.As a result, terminal user can compare content item partly popular in different geographic areas, and not show
Go out the identical popular content project of overall importance for each geographic area.
Fig. 3 illustrates the another exemplary UI300 for describing the Geographic Epidemic degree for independent content item.UI300 can
For to upload content item terminal user or from the terminal user authorization to general management person, management user or investigation in
The other users of the measurement of appearance project provide measurement.UI300 describes the thumbnail image 301 of content item, content item is retouched
302 are stated, it can include title, short solution annotations, video length, the owner, upload date, total viewing number and total viewing
Time.In addition, UI300, which provides a variety of different charts and figure to illustrate Analysis server 120, to be content item
The not homometric(al) provided.For example, viewing chart 305 was shown in the lifetime of the content item on shared content hosting platform
The daily viewing of content item.Drop-down menu 303 allows user to change the type that the viewing in chart 305 describes, such as daily
Viewing, weekly viewing, monthly viewing etc..
In terms of Geographic Epidemic degree, UI300 provide chart 310, its describe as the geographical position with content item away from
From function viewing number.Similarly, mapping table 320 provides the view of overall importance of the popularity of video, based on those areas
Viewing number in domain provides different shades for geographic area.Finally, scale 315 is in contrast locality popularity side of overall importance
Face is classified by content item.The described scope of scale flows to ' strong global ' from ' strong locality '.Those skilled in the art
It will be recognized that identical concept can be described using other terms and description.Above-mentioned Geographic Epidemic degree formula can be analyzed server
120 applications are supported on the chart provided in UI300, figure, mapping table and scale 305-320 data to produce.This area
Technical staff will appreciate that other diagrams and the description of measurement, and embodiments of the invention are not limited to carry in figure 3
Those supplied.
Fig. 4-6 is the various embodiments of the method for the Geographic Epidemic degree of the content generated for assessing the user of geo-location
Flow chart.This method is performed by processing logic, and the processing logic may include hardware (circuit, special logic etc.), software (such as
Run in general-purpose computing system or special purpose machinery) or both combination.In one embodiment, can be by such as relative to Fig. 1
The described Analysis server 120 run in server machine or another machine performs Fig. 4-6 method.
Fig. 4 be a diagram that the one of the method 400 of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content that the user for tracking geo-location generates
The flow chart of individual embodiment.At the square frame 410 of method 400, content item is received together with the metadata of geographical position.At one
In embodiment, content item is uploaded into shared content hosting platform.Content item can be video, photo, music, document etc.
In it is at least one.At square frame 420, the record viewing data associated with content item.In certain embodiments, number is watched
According to the time and date including viewing, the IP address associated with viewing, the duration of viewing and class with content item
Other relevant viewing data of type.In one embodiment, can be by viewing historical data and the first number associated with content item
According to storing together.In other embodiments, the viewing historical data and content and its first number associated for content item are kept
According to dividually storing.
Square frame 430 to 470 utilizes the geographical position metadata and viewing historical data identified in square frame 410 and 420
To calculate various geographically relevant measurements.At square frame 430, total viewing measurement V is calculated content item.As described above, total viewing
Measure total viewing number of V measurement content items.At square frame 440, viewing distance measurement D is calculated content item.Viewing away from
From the average distance between measurement D measurement viewing locations and item location, how it is illustrated generally as project from remote
Region receives viewing.
At square frame 450, viewing locality measurement L is calculated content item.Viewing locality measurement L passes through to from attached
Perigean viewing applies bigger weight and applies smaller weight to the viewing from remote region to measure content item
How to receive and watch from distant location.Then, at square frame 460, viewing entropy measurement H is calculated content item.Watch entropy measurement H
In the case where not considering content item destination locations measurement viewing how across different zones distributions.Finally, it is right at square frame 470
Content item, which calculates, watches geographical entropy metric G.Watch geographical entropy metric G measurement viewing how across different zones distributions, examine simultaneously
Consider the geographical position of content item.
Finally, at square frame 480, by the measurement calculated from square frame 430 to 470 and the metadata of content item or
At least one in other analyze datas of content item stores together.Other analyze datas may include the sight of such as content item
See historical data.The whole lifetime that content item can be run through periodically repeats the square frame 420-480 of method 400.For example, can
Daily or weekly repeat these steps.
Fig. 5 be a diagram that the one of the method 500 of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content that the user for comparing geo-location generates
The flow chart of individual embodiment.At the square frame 510 of method 500, receive to compare the Geographic Epidemic for multiple content items
The request of degree.The request also indicate this relatively in by one or more geographic areas of consideration.In certain embodiments, it is geographical
Region can from regional horizontal (such as Asia-Pacific) to national level (such as Australia) up to localised region (such as Silicon Valley)
Or changed in the range of city level (such as Phoenix).In one embodiment, in the terminal clothes of shared content hosting platform
The request is received at business device and is passed to the Analysis server of platform for Analysis Service.
At square frame 520, geographical entropy degree is watched to sharing all the elements project retrieval in content hosting platform or accessing
Measure data.In one embodiment, previously viewing geography is periodically calculated to being stored in each content item at platform
Entropy metric data.Then, at square frame 530, according to the geographical entropy measurement pair of its viewing for each indicated geographic area
Each content item carries out ranking.Finally, at square frame 540, the ranking result from square frame 530 is returned to show in UI
Show.In one embodiment, result is back to front-end server to be shown via UI to terminal user.
Fig. 6 be a diagram that the one of the method 600 of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content that the user for showing geo-location generates
The flow chart of individual embodiment.At the square frame 610 of method 600, receive to provide asking for the metric data for content item
Ask.The metric data includes the Geographic Epidemic degree metric data for content item.In one embodiment, in shared content support
The request is received at the front-end server of pipe platform and is passed to the Analysis server of platform for Analysis Service.
At square frame 620, the metric data for content item, including Geographic Epidemic degree metric data are retrieved, it includes
Viewing distance metric data, viewing locality metric data, viewing entropy metric data and the geographical entropy metric data of viewing.One
In individual embodiment, previously to being stored in the periodically computation measure data of each content item at platform.It can will measure number
According to together with the metadata of content item or the analyze data with polymerizeing in advance is stored separately.
At square frame 630, each Geographic Epidemic is created in the form of at least one in chart, figure, scale or mapping table
The visual representation of measurement.In one embodiment, one in the visual representation is from ' strong global ' to ' strong part
Property ' scope on by content item classify scale.Finally, at square frame 640, created in UI for content item display
Visual representation.In one embodiment, result is back to front-end server to be shown via UI to terminal user.
Fig. 7 illustrates can perform one group of instruction to promote machine to perform appointing in process discussed herein inside it
The figure of the machine of the exemplary form of what one or more computer system 700 represents.In alternative embodiment, it can incite somebody to action
Machine connects (such as networking) to the other machines in LAN, in-house network, extranets or internet.Machine can be used as client-clothes
Server or client machine in device network environment of being engaged in or as the peer in end-to-end (or distribution) network environment
Device is operated.The machine can be personal computer (PC), tablet PC, set top box (STB), personal digital assistant (PDA), honeybee
Cellular telephone, web apparatuses, server, network router, interchanger or bridger are able to carry out specifying and will taken by the machine
Action one group of instruction (continuous or other) any machine.Although, should also be by term in addition, illustrate only individual machine
" machine ", which is understood to include, either individually or collectively performs one group (or multigroup) instruction to perform in process discussed herein
Any set of the machine of any one or more.
Exemplary computer system 700 includes processing equipment (processor) 702, (such as the read-only storage of main storage 704
(ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), such as synchronous dram (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM
(RDRAM) etc.), static memory 706 (for example, flash memory, static RAM (SRAM) etc.) and data
Storage device 718, it is in communication with each other via bus 708.
Processor 702 represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as microprocessor, CPU.More specifically
Ground, processing equipment 702 can be that sophisticated vocabulary calculates (CISC) microprocessor, Jing Ke Cao Neng (RISC) microprocessor
Device, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, the processor realized the processor of other instruction set or realize the combination of instruction set.
Processor 702 can also be one or more dedicated treatment facilities, such as application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), field-programmable gate array
Arrange (FPGA), digital signal processor (DSP), network processing unit etc..Processor 702 is configured to execute instruction 726 to hold
The operation discussed in this article and step that row is illustrated in the figure 7 by the instruction 726 described in processor 702.
Computer system 700 can also include Network Interface Unit 722.Computer system 700 can also show including video
Show unit 710 (for example, liquid crystal display (LCD)) or cathode-ray tube (CRT) or touch-screen), Alphanumeric Entry Device 712
(for example, keyboard), cursor control device 714 (for example, mouse) and signal generating apparatus 720 (for example, loudspeaker).
Data storage device 718 can include computer-readable recording medium 724, store embody this paper institutes in the above
State the one or more instruction set 726 (such as software) of any one or more in method or function.Instruction 726 can also be
Its carried out by the computer system 700, main storage 724 and the processor 702 that equally form computer-readable recording medium is held
Completely or at least partially it is present between the departure date in main storage 704 and/or in processor 702.Can also be via network interface
Equipment 722 transmits or received instruction 726 by network 774.
In one embodiment, instruction 726 includes being used to may correspond to the Analysis server of Fig. 1 Analysis server 120
750 instruction and/or the software library for including the method for calling Analysis server.Although in the exemplary embodiment can by computer
Read storage medium 724 and be shown as single medium, but term " computer-readable recording medium " should be interpreted as including storage one
Or the single medium of multiple instruction collection or multiple media are (for example, centralized or distributed database and/or the cache of association
And server).Should also term " computer-readable recording medium " be understood to include can store one group of instruction or it is carried out
Encode or carry to be performed by machine and to promote machine to perform any Jie of any one or more in the method for the present invention
Matter.Correspondingly term " computer-readable recording medium " should be understood to include but be not limited to solid-state memory, optical medium with
And magnetizing mediums.
In the foregoing written description, many details are elaborated.It is to be understood, however, that this area for benefiting from the disclosure
It can implement the present invention in the case of these no specific details for technical staff.In some cases, with block diagram format and
It is not to be illustrated in detail in well-known structure and equipment in order to avoid obscuring the invention hard to understand.
Detailed description is presented in terms of the algorithm of the operation of data bit in computer storage and symbol expression
Some parts.These arthmetic statements and expression are that the technical staff of data processing field is used for most having to those skilled in the art
Pass on the substantive means of its work in effect ground.Algorithm herein and usually it is contemplated that into be the step of causing expected result from
Consistent sequence.The step is those of the physical manipulation of requirement physical quantity.Generally, but not necessarily, take can be by for this tittle
The form for the electrical or magnetic signal for storing, transmit, combine, comparing and manipulating.In principle due to general use, sometimes will
These signals are referred to as position, value, element, symbol, character, item, numeral etc. and have turned out to be convenient.
However, should be remembered that all these and similar terms will be associated with appropriate physical quantity, and it is only to answer
Facilitate label for this tittle.Unless specifically stated otherwise, it is such as obvious according to following discussion, it should be recognized that throughout
This description, using " segmentation ", " analysis ", " it is determined that ", " enabled ", " identification ", the discussion of the term such as " modification " is with reference to calculating
The action of machine system or similar electronic computing device and process, it in the register and memory of computer system to being expressed as
The data of physics (for example, electronics) amount are manipulated and are transformed into computer system memory or register or other such letters
Other data of physical quantity are similarly represented as in breath storage, transmission or display device.
The invention further relates to apparatuses for performing the operations herein.This device can distinguishingly structure for the required purposes
Make, or it may include to be stored in the all-purpose computer that the computer program in computer is optionally activated or reconfigured by.This
Class computer program can store in a computer-readable storage medium, such as, but not limited to any kind of disk, including floppy disk,
CD, CD-ROM and magneto-optic disk, read-only storage (ROM), random access memory (RAM), EPROM, EEPROM, magnetically or optically
Block or be suitable for storing any kind of medium of e-command.
Mean throughout reference of this specification to " one embodiment " or " embodiment " with reference to specific described in the embodiment
Feature, structure or characteristic are included at least one embodiment.Therefore, phrase " in one embodiment " or " in embodiment
In " appearance throughout this specification on various positions is not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.In addition, term "or" is intended to meaning
Refer to inclusive "or" rather than exclusiveness "or".
It should be understood that above description is intended to be illustrative and nonrestrictive.When reading and understanding above description, permitted
More other embodiments will be apparent for a person skilled in the art.Therefore, should refer to appended claims with
And such claim full breadth of equivalent for being awarded determines the scope of the present invention.
Claims (20)
1. a kind of method, including：
The content item of user's generation with metadata, the metadata are received by the computing device for sharing content hosting platform
Indicate the geographical position of the content item of user's generation；
The associated geographical position of viewing examples different from the content item of user generation is determined by the computing device
Metadata is put, the geographical position metadata description provides the ground of the user equipment of a viewing example in the viewing example
Manage position；
By the computing device by while the geographical position of content item that the user generates is considered across multiple geography
Geographical position metadata determined by area distribution calculates the viewing geography entropy of the content item of user generation；And
The viewing geography entropy calculated of the content item of user's generation is provided by the computing device so as in conduct
Presented in the visual display of a part for the analysis report of the content item of user's generation.
2. according to the method for claim 1, wherein, indicate the content item of user generation geographical position it is described
Metadata is provided by the user for uploading the content item of user's generation.
3. according to the method for claim 1, wherein, the viewing geography entropy of the content item of user's generation is equal to-Σi
(vi/V)log(vi/(V*di)), wherein, viIt is the viewing number received in the i of specific region, V is to be used to the user give birth to
Into the overall total viewing number of content item, and diIt is geographical position and and the v of the content item of user's generationiIn
The distance between the associated position of geographic area of the viewing number.
4. the method according to claim 11, in addition to pass through the geography in the content item for not considering user's generation
Metadata how across different geographic regions distributions in geographical position are given birth to calculate the user determined by measurement in the case of position
Into content item viewing entropy.
5. according to the method for claim 4, further comprise point of the description in the content item generated as the user
Analyse the viewing entropy in another visual representation of a part for report.
6. according to the method for claim 1, further comprise the viewing geography entropy of content item for generating the user
With the viewing of the content item of one or more other users generation in the preset distance of the content item of user generation
Geographical entropy compares.
7. according to the method for claim 6, further comprise providing the content item of user's generation and one
Or the comparison of the geographical entropy of viewing of the content item of multiple other users generation is used as ranking, wherein the maximum geographical entropy ranking of viewing
First.
8. according to the method for claim 1, further comprise that the viewing of the content item based on user generation is geographical
The user is given birth on the yardstick that entropy changes in the range of from content item highly of overall importance to high locality content item
Into content item classification, wherein the content item of highly instruction of overall importance user generation has throughout multiple geographic areas
Consistent popularity, and high locality indicates that the content item of user's generation has high stream in single geographic area
Row degree.
9. a kind of non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums with instruction, the instruction promote institute when processed equipment performs
State processing equipment and perform operation, the operation includes：
The content item of user's generation with metadata, the member are received by the processing equipment for sharing content hosting platform
Data indicate the geographical position of the content item of user's generation；
The associated geographical position of viewing examples different from the content item of user generation is determined by the processing equipment
Metadata is put, the geographical position metadata description provides the ground of the user equipment of a viewing example in the viewing example
Manage position；
By the processing equipment by while the geographical position of content item that the user generates is considered across multiple geography
Geographical position metadata determined by area distribution calculates the viewing geography entropy of the content item of user generation；And
The viewing geography entropy calculated of the content item of user's generation is provided by the processing equipment so as in conduct
Presented in the visual display of a part for the analysis report of the content item of user's generation.
10. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 9, wherein, indicate the interior of user's generation
The metadata in the geographical position of appearance project is provided by the user for uploading the content item of user's generation.
11. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 9, wherein, the content item of user's generation
Purpose watches geographical entropy and is equal to-Σi(vi/V)log(vi/(V*di)), wherein, viIt is the viewing time received in the i of specific region
Number, V are the total viewing numbers overall for the content item of user generation, and diIt is the content item of user's generation
Purpose geographical position and and viIn the distance between associated position of geographic area of viewing number.
12. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 9, wherein, the instruction is by the processing
Equipment promotes the processing equipment to perform further operation, the operation when performing include：By not considering user's life
Into content item geographical position in the case of geographical position metadata determined by measurement how to dissipate across different geographic regions
Cloth calculates the viewing entropy of the content item of user generation.
13. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 9, wherein, the instruction is by the processing
Equipment promotes the processing equipment to perform further operation, the operation when performing include：The content item that the user is generated
Purpose watches geographical entropy and one or more other users generation in the preset distance of the content item of user generation
The viewing geography entropy of content item compares.
14. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 13, wherein, the instruction is by the processing
Equipment promotes the processing equipment to perform further operation, the operation when performing include：The content of user's generation is provided
The comparison of the geographical entropy of viewing of project and the content item of one or more of other users generation is as ranking, wherein maximum
Geographical entropy is watched to rank the first.
15. non-provisional computer-readable recording mediums according to claim 9, wherein, the instruction is by the processing
Equipment promotes the processing equipment to perform further operation, the operation when performing include：Content based on user generation
The yardstick that the geographical entropy of viewing of project changes in the range of from content item highly of overall importance to high locality content item
On the content item that generates the user classify, wherein the content item of instruction highly of overall importance user's generation is throughout more
Individual geographic area has consistent popularity, and high locality indicates the content item of user's generation in single geography
There is high popularity in region.
16. a kind of computing device, including：
Memory, to store the metadata for multiple content items and the viewing history number for the multiple content item
According to；And
Processing equipment, the memory is coupled to, wherein the processing equipment is configured to：
The metadata associated with the content item that user generates from the memory search, the metadata indicate the user
The geographical position of the content item of generation；
The geographical position member associated from the different viewing examples for the content item that the user generates from the memory search
Data, the geographical position metadata are a parts for the viewing historical data and provide the viewing example including description
In one viewing example user equipment geographical position information；
By the way that across multiple geographic areas, distribution is determined while the geographical position of content item of user's generation is considered
Geographical position metadata calculate the viewing geography entropy of the content item of user generation；And
The geographical entropy of viewing calculated of the content item of user's generation is provided so as in as user generation
Presented in the visual display of a part for the analysis report of appearance project.
17. computing device according to claim 16, wherein, viewing geography entropy of content item of user's generation etc.
In-Σi(vi/V)log(vi/(V*di)), wherein, viIt is the viewing number received in the i of specific region, V is to be used for the use
Total viewing number of the content item totality of family generation, and diBe the content item of user generation geographical position and with
viIn the distance between associated position of geographic area of viewing number.
18. computing device according to claim 16, wherein, the processing equipment is further configured to the user
The geographical entropy of viewing of the content item of generation with the preset distance of the content item of user generation it is one or more its
The viewing geography entropy of the content item of his user's generation compares.
19. computing device according to claim 18, wherein, the processing equipment is further configured to provide the use
The comparison conduct of the geographical entropy of viewing of the content item of family generation and the content item of one or more of other users generation
Ranking, wherein the maximum geographical entropy of viewing ranks the first.
20. computing device according to claim 16, wherein, the processing equipment is further configured to be based on the use
The geographical entropy of viewing of the content item of family generation is in the scope from content item highly of overall importance to high locality content item
The content item for generating the user on the yardstick of interior variation is classified, wherein instruction highly of overall importance user's generation is interior
Appearance project has consistent popularity throughout multiple geographic areas, and high locality indicates the content item of user's generation
Mesh has high popularity in single geographic area.
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201161553610P | 2011-10-31 | 2011-10-31 | |
US61/553,610 | 2011-10-31 | ||
US13/358,982 | 2012-01-26 | ||
US13/358,982 US8806519B2 (en) | 2011-10-31 | 2012-01-26 | Method to evaluate the geographic popularity of geographically located user-generated content items |
PCT/US2012/062852 WO2013067047A1 (en) | 2011-10-31 | 2012-10-31 | Method to evaluate the geographic popularity of geographically located user-generated content items |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN104169910A CN104169910A (en) | 2014-11-26 |
CN104169910B true CN104169910B (en) | 2017-12-01 |
Family
ID=48173857
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201280064820.6A Active CN104169910B (en) | 2011-10-31 | 2012-10-31 | The method of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content item that user for assessing geo-location generates |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US8806519B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP2774092A4 (en) |
CN (1) | CN104169910B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2013067047A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (19)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9049546B2 (en) * | 2012-04-10 | 2015-06-02 | Yellowpages.Com Llc | User description based on a context of travel |
US8849312B2 (en) | 2012-04-10 | 2014-09-30 | Yellowpages.Com Llc | User description based on contexts of location and time |
KR20140042263A (en) * | 2012-09-28 | 2014-04-07 | 삼성전자주식회사 | Apparatus and method for transmitting and receiving buffering data in media streaming service |
US9635400B1 (en) * | 2012-10-01 | 2017-04-25 | Google Inc. | Subscribing to video clips by source |
US9344990B1 (en) * | 2012-12-03 | 2016-05-17 | Sprint Communications Company L.P. | Device location accuracy metrics for applications on wireless communication devices |
US9955231B2 (en) * | 2013-03-14 | 2018-04-24 | DISH Technologies L.L.C. | Relevant video content pushed to a mobile phone |
US9635404B2 (en) * | 2013-04-24 | 2017-04-25 | The Nielsen Company (Us), Llc | Methods and apparatus to correlate census measurement data with panel data |
US20140351687A1 (en) * | 2013-05-24 | 2014-11-27 | Facebook, Inc. | Contextual Alternate Text for Images |
US9432712B2 (en) * | 2014-01-22 | 2016-08-30 | Zefr, Inc. | Updating channel appearance |
US10089326B2 (en) | 2014-07-16 | 2018-10-02 | Google Llc | Generating textual summary about physical location based on computing interactions pertaining to physical location |
JP6131233B2 (en) * | 2014-10-24 | 2017-05-17 | 豊田鉄工株式会社 | Stacked composite interior parts |
US9390323B1 (en) | 2015-05-18 | 2016-07-12 | International Business Machines Corporation | Recommending sites through metadata analysis |
US20170169025A1 (en) * | 2015-12-14 | 2017-06-15 | Google Inc. | Estimating Geographic Entity Capacity |
US10091549B1 (en) * | 2017-03-30 | 2018-10-02 | Rovi Guides, Inc. | Methods and systems for recommending media assets based on the geographic location at which the media assets are frequently consumed |
CN107370811B (en) * | 2017-07-14 | 2020-11-27 | 北京知道创宇信息技术股份有限公司 | Resource distribution method of CDN (content delivery network), computing equipment and readable storage medium |
CN108511073A (en) * | 2017-12-28 | 2018-09-07 | 王秀丽 | A kind of Newborn Birth-defects method for early warning based on grid |
US11109105B2 (en) * | 2019-01-11 | 2021-08-31 | Sharp Nec Display Solutions, Ltd. | Graphical user interface for insights on viewing of media content |
US11334604B2 (en) * | 2019-09-12 | 2022-05-17 | Snowflake Inc. | Private data exchange |
KR20220061431A (en) * | 2020-11-06 | 2022-05-13 | 삼성전자주식회사 | Electronic apparatus and method of controlling the same |
Family Cites Families (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
JP2009528639A (en) | 2006-02-28 | 2009-08-06 | バズロジック， インコーポレイテッド | Social analysis system and method for analyzing conversations in social media |
US9535911B2 (en) * | 2007-06-29 | 2017-01-03 | Pulsepoint, Inc. | Processing a content item with regard to an event |
US8752100B2 (en) * | 2008-08-29 | 2014-06-10 | At&T Intellectual Property Ii, Lp | Systems and methods for distributing video on demand |
US9119027B2 (en) * | 2009-10-06 | 2015-08-25 | Facebook, Inc. | Sharing of location-based content item in social networking service |
US8204977B1 (en) | 2011-11-08 | 2012-06-19 | Google Inc. | Content access analytics |
-
2012
- 2012-01-26 US US13/358,982 patent/US8806519B2/en active Active
- 2012-10-31 WO PCT/US2012/062852 patent/WO2013067047A1/en active Application Filing
- 2012-10-31 CN CN201280064820.6A patent/CN104169910B/en active Active
- 2012-10-31 EP EP12845467.5A patent/EP2774092A4/en not_active Ceased
-
2014
- 2014-06-27 US US14/317,031 patent/US9078036B2/en active Active
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20130111512A1 (en) | 2013-05-02 |
WO2013067047A1 (en) | 2013-05-10 |
EP2774092A4 (en) | 2015-06-24 |
US8806519B2 (en) | 2014-08-12 |
EP2774092A1 (en) | 2014-09-10 |
CN104169910A (en) | 2014-11-26 |
US20150007210A1 (en) | 2015-01-01 |
US9078036B2 (en) | 2015-07-07 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN104169910B (en) | The method of the Geographic Epidemic degree for the content item that user for assessing geo-location generates | |
CN105320766B (en) | Information-pushing method and device | |
US20160275127A1 (en) | Systems and methods for presenting content | |
CN102906689B (en) | Website is organized social activity information | |
CN104813305B (en) | The traceable of Online Video content is shared | |
CN110519621A (en) | Video recommendation method, device, electronic equipment and computer-readable medium | |
US10713666B2 (en) | Systems and methods for curating content | |
US20110202827A1 (en) | Systems and Methods for Curating Content | |
CN105493057B (en) | The content selection controlled using accuracy | |
US11218568B2 (en) | Personalized entity information page | |
EP3893181A1 (en) | Method and system for matching location-based content | |
CN109857908A (en) | Method and apparatus for matching video | |
CN108141472A (en) | Connect the regulation engine of equipment | |
US20160292238A1 (en) | Query-by-example for finding similar people | |
JP2007249306A (en) | Information distribution system, information distribution method, and program | |
US20190019158A1 (en) | Quality evaluation of recommendation service | |
CN107077473A (en) | System, method and computer-readable medium for display content | |
CN104484415A (en) | E-book supplying method and e-book supplying device | |
Akoumianakis et al. | Retaining and exploring online remains on YouTube | |
JP2015106351A (en) | Content distribution device and free word recommendation method | |
JP6604608B2 (en) | Information processing apparatus, information processing method, and information processing program | |
Papadakis et al. | Movie score: Personalized movie recommendation on mobile devices | |
KR20200091280A (en) | Method for collecting and providing and sharing character information of SNS | |
EP3992893A1 (en) | Condition-based method for displaying digital content, system and computer-readable storage | |
Chatcharaporn et al. | Improving performance of a mobile personalized recommendation engine using multithreading |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
CP01 | Change in the name or title of a patent holder | ||
CP01 | Change in the name or title of a patent holder |
Address after: American CaliforniaPatentee after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaPatentee before: Google Inc. |