CN106030650A - Splitting content channels - Google Patents
Splitting content channels Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN106030650A CN106030650A CN201580010537.9A CN201580010537A CN106030650A CN 106030650 A CN106030650 A CN 106030650A CN 201580010537 A CN201580010537 A CN 201580010537A CN 106030650 A CN106030650 A CN 106030650A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- channel
- user
- result
- content item
- target channel
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Granted
Links
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/266—Channel or content management, e.g. generation and management of keys and entitlement messages in a conditional access system, merging a VOD unicast channel into a multicast channel
- H04N21/2668—Creating a channel for a dedicated end-user group, e.g. insertion of targeted commercials based on end-user profiles
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/251—Learning process for intelligent management, e.g. learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/252—Processing of multiple end-users' preferences to derive collaborative data
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25866—Management of end-user data
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/27—Server based end-user applications
- H04N21/274—Storing end-user multimedia data in response to end-user request, e.g. network recorder
- H04N21/2743—Video hosting of uploaded data from client
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/43—Processing of content or additional data, e.g. demultiplexing additional data from a digital video stream; Elementary client operations, e.g. monitoring of home network or synchronising decoder's clock; Client middleware
- H04N21/44—Processing of video elementary streams, e.g. splicing a video clip retrieved from local storage with an incoming video stream, rendering scenes according to MPEG-4 scene graphs
- H04N21/44016—Processing of video elementary streams, e.g. splicing a video clip retrieved from local storage with an incoming video stream, rendering scenes according to MPEG-4 scene graphs involving splicing one content stream with another content stream, e.g. for substituting a video clip
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/47—End-user applications
- H04N21/478—Supplemental services, e.g. displaying phone caller identification, shopping application
- H04N21/4788—Supplemental services, e.g. displaying phone caller identification, shopping application communicating with other users, e.g. chatting
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/60—Network structure or processes for video distribution between server and client or between remote clients; Control signalling between clients, server and network components; Transmission of management data between server and client, e.g. sending from server to client commands for recording incoming content stream; Communication details between server and client
- H04N21/63—Control signaling related to video distribution between client, server and network components; Network processes for video distribution between server and clients or between remote clients, e.g. transmitting basic layer and enhancement layers over different transmission paths, setting up a peer-to-peer communication via Internet between remote STB's; Communication protocols; Addressing
- H04N21/643—Communication protocols
- H04N21/64322—IP
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25808—Management of client data
- H04N21/25841—Management of client data involving the geographical location of the client
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25866—Management of end-user data
- H04N21/25883—Management of end-user data being end-user demographical data, e.g. age, family status or address
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/20—Servers specifically adapted for the distribution of content, e.g. VOD servers; Operations thereof
- H04N21/25—Management operations performed by the server for facilitating the content distribution or administrating data related to end-users or client devices, e.g. end-user or client device authentication, learning user preferences for recommending movies
- H04N21/258—Client or end-user data management, e.g. managing client capabilities, user preferences or demographics, processing of multiple end-users preferences to derive collaborative data
- H04N21/25866—Management of end-user data
- H04N21/25891—Management of end-user data being end-user preferences
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/45—Management operations performed by the client for facilitating the reception of or the interaction with the content or administrating data related to the end-user or to the client device itself, e.g. learning user preferences for recommending movies, resolving scheduling conflicts
- H04N21/462—Content or additional data management, e.g. creating a master electronic program guide from data received from the Internet and a Head-end, controlling the complexity of a video stream by scaling the resolution or bit-rate based on the client capabilities
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/47—End-user applications
- H04N21/472—End-user interface for requesting content, additional data or services; End-user interface for interacting with content, e.g. for content reservation or setting reminders, for requesting event notification, for manipulating displayed content
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/47—End-user applications
- H04N21/482—End-user interface for program selection
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/40—Client devices specifically adapted for the reception of or interaction with content, e.g. set-top-box [STB]; Operations thereof
- H04N21/47—End-user applications
- H04N21/488—Data services, e.g. news ticker
- H04N21/4882—Data services, e.g. news ticker for displaying messages, e.g. warnings, reminders
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04N—PICTORIAL COMMUNICATION, e.g. TELEVISION
- H04N21/00—Selective content distribution, e.g. interactive television or video on demand [VOD]
- H04N21/60—Network structure or processes for video distribution between server and client or between remote clients; Control signalling between clients, server and network components; Transmission of management data between server and client, e.g. sending from server to client commands for recording incoming content stream; Communication details between server and client
- H04N21/63—Control signaling related to video distribution between client, server and network components; Network processes for video distribution between server and clients or between remote clients, e.g. transmitting basic layer and enhancement layers over different transmission paths, setting up a peer-to-peer communication via Internet between remote STB's; Communication protocols; Addressing
- H04N21/647—Control signaling between network components and server or clients; Network processes for video distribution between server and clients, e.g. controlling the quality of the video stream, by dropping packets, protecting content from unauthorised alteration within the network, monitoring of network load, bridging between two different networks, e.g. between IP and wireless
- H04N21/64784—Data processing by the network
Abstract
A method for splitting content channels is disclosed. The method includes identifying, by a processing device of a content sharing platform, result channels originating from a target channel of the content sharing platform, wherein each of the result channels corresponds to a set of users of the target channel that view a similar set of content items from the target channel. The method may further include, for each of the result channels, subscribing, by the processing device to the result channel, the set of users that corresponds to the result channel, and associating, by the processing device to the result channel, the set of the content items of the target channel that corresponds to the subscribed set of users of the result channel.
Description
Technical field
It relates to content shared platform field, and in particular it relates to separate content channel.
Background technology
On the internet, social networks allows user be connected to each other and share information.A lot of social
Network includes that content shares aspect, and described content is shared aspect and allowed user to upload, check and be total to
Enjoying content, (they can be by jointly for such as video content, picture material, audio content etc.
It is referred to as " media item " or " content item ").Such media item can include audio fragment,
Vidclip, TV fragment and music video, and such as videoblog, original short-sighted frequency, figure
The amateurish content of picture, photo, other content of multimedia etc..User can use calculating equipment (all
Such as smart phone, cell phone, laptop computer, desk computer, net book, flat board
Computer) to use, to play and/or consume media item (such as, viewing digital video and/or receipts
Listen digital music).
Content shared platform can include one or more channel, or one or more channel is permissible
Checked by the Internet.Channel is a kind of for providing specific media item and/or for ordering
Family provides the mechanism of the access to media item.The media item of channel can be easily selected by a user, by with
Family is uploaded, is selected by content providers or the side's of being broadcasted selection.User can subscribe to one or
Multiple channels.When for the relevant spectators (coherent audience) in user in channel
When appearance is optimized (such as, be focused or be customized), the user of content shared platform will more
The most persistently watch the content item of described channel and/or subscribe to described channel.
Summary of the invention
It is hereafter that the simplification summary of the disclosure is so that aspect more of this disclosure provides basic reason
Solve.Described general if it were not for the general overview of the disclosure.Its key being not intended to identify the disclosure
Or decisive element, also it is not intended to describe any scope or the power of the detailed description of the invention of the disclosure
Any scope that profit requires.Before its purpose is only as the more specific description presented subsequently
Sequence, presents some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified manner.
In one embodiment, a kind of method for separating content channel is disclosed.Described
Method includes the result channel being stemmed from target channel by processing equipment identification, the most each result
Channel is gathered corresponding with the user of target channel, and described user set is checked from target channel
The similar set of content item.Described method may further include: for each result channel,
By processing equipment, the user set corresponding with described result channel is subscribed to described result frequency
Road, and by processing equipment by the set associative of the content item of target channel to described result channel,
The set of described content item is gathered corresponding with the user of the subscription of result channel.
In one embodiment, method also includes the user of target channel has been mapped to user
The content item of the target channel checked, has checked the probability of the similar set of content item in view of user
User grouping to user is gathered, and when each be grouped user's set exceedes the threshold of user
During value level, by each be grouped user's set associative to result channel in corresponding one
Individual result channel.The threshold level of user can at least include number of users or user's percentage ratio.
In some embodiments, method farther includes: for each result channel, updates
The feeding (feed) of user's set of corresponding result channel is to reflect described result channel.It addition,
Renewal may further include: each user in gathering for user, removes and target channel
Corresponding feeding item；And the feeding item corresponding with target channel is replaced with result channel
Feeding item.It addition, identify that the owner that may further include suggestion target channel can be by
Described target channel is separated into result channel, and receives from described possessory confirmation to continue
Continue and target channel is separated into result channel.
In other implementations, method includes: for each result channel, utilize target
The UI element of channel automatically generates user interface UI for target channel, wherein UI unit
Plain is at least some of the most corresponding with the set of content item, the set of described content item and result frequency
Road is corresponding.It addition, the set of the content item corresponding with result channel is the most overlapping.
In some embodiments, target channel can include having in common theme, exercise question or essence
The content item of the content shared platform of at least one.Further, target channel can include tool
There is the content item of the content shared platform of common source.
In Additional embodiments, also disclose a kind of operation for performing aforementioned embodiments
Calculating equipment.It addition, in embodiment of the present disclosure, computer-readable recording medium is deposited
Storage is for the method performing the operation of aforementioned embodiments.
Accompanying drawing explanation
In the figure of accompanying drawing, by way of example and unrestriced mode illustrates the disclosure.
Fig. 1 illustrates the example system architecture of an embodiment according to the disclosure.
Fig. 2 be a diagram that the frame of the channel separation assembly of an embodiment according to the disclosure
Figure.
Fig. 3 be a diagram that some embodiments according to the disclosure for advising target channel
The flow chart of the method separated.
Fig. 4 be a diagram that according to embodiment of the present disclosure for the method separating target channel
Flow chart.
Fig. 5 be a diagram that according to embodiment of the present disclosure for about separating target channel
The flow chart of the method mutual with the channel owners of the target channel at client device.
Fig. 6 be a diagram that the block diagram of the exemplary computer system according to some embodiments.
Detailed description of the invention
For separating content channel, embodiment is described.Content shared platform can include multiple frequency
Road.Channel can be the gathering of the data content that can obtain from common source, or has common main
Topic, exercise question or the data content of essence.Creator of content in content shared platform can have
Described creator of content issues multiple channels of content to it, maybe can have the institute including them
One channel of all the elements in issue content.The content optimizing channel is allowed to aim in user
Relevant spectators can cause more likely adhering to watching the user of channel content and more likely subscribing to
User to described channel.If channel includes the content crossing over multiple school, it may be to looking into
The person of seeing has less captivation, because viewer may like the video of a kind of school on channel
Rather than it is another kind of.As a result, for a user, the total value of channel is diluted.
Embodiment of the present disclosure makes the existing channel (" target channel ") of content shared platform
Two or more channels can be separated into.The channel that existing channel can be separated into
Set (" result channel ") can the existing frequency that consumes user of user based on existing channel
Distribution in the content in road.In some embodiments, the UI assembly of content shared platform is to frequency
The road owner recommends the existing channel separated.Once channel owners ratifies and/or starts existing
The separation of channel, is identified as the content item from existing channel being associated with each result channel,
It is identified as subscribing to each result channel by user's set simultaneously.Result channel is next by content
Shared platform is provided, and includes the user of identified content item and subscription.Implement at some
In mode, by removing the old feeding item from existing channel, and it is replaced with from this
The newest feeding item of the result channel that user subscribes to, updates the feeding of the user of subscription.
The prior embodiments of content shared platform and/or social networks does not provide for by existing
Channel separation is the solution of multiple result channel.Therefore, content shared platform and/or social activity
These prior embodiments of network can not provide optimization channel content to the absorbed spectators in user
Solution, and therefore, check colony providing to channel owners for increase channel
And increase in the ability of the solution of degree closely between user and channel limited.
Fig. 1 illustrate an embodiment according to the disclosure for separating content shared platform
The example system architecture 100 of content channel.System architecture 100 includes client device 110A
To 110Z, network 105, data storage 106, content shared platform 120 and server 130.
In one embodiment, network 105 can include common network (such as, the Internet),
Dedicated network (such as, LAN (LAN) or wide area network (WAN)), cable network (example
Such as, Ethernet), wireless network (such as, 802.11 networks or Wi-Fi network), Cellular Networks
Network (such as, Long Term Evolution (LTE) network), router, hub (hub), exchange
Machine, server computer and/or above combination.In one embodiment, data storage 106
Can be memorizer (such as, random access memory), cache, driving (such as,
Hard drive), flash drive, Database Systems or data-storable another type assembly
Or equipment.Data storage 106 can also include multiple storage assembly (such as, multiple drivings or
Multiple data bases), (such as, the plurality of storage assembly can also cross over multiple calculating equipment
Multiple server computers).
Client device 110A to 110Z can each include such as personal computer (PC),
Laptop computer, mobile phone, smart phone, tablet PC, netbook computer etc.
Calculating equipment.In some embodiments, client device 110A to 110Z can also be by
It is referred to as " subscriber equipment ".Each client device includes Media Viewer 111.An enforcement
In mode, Media Viewer 111 can be the application allowing user to check content, described content
Such as image, video, webpage, document etc..Such as, Media Viewer 111 can be Web
Browser, it can access, retrieve, present and/or navigate by the supplied service of Web server
Content (such as, the such as webpage of HTML (HTML) page, Digital Media
Etc.).(such as, Media Viewer 111 can represent, shows or present content to user
Webpage, Media Viewer).Media Viewer 111 can also show and is embedded into webpage (such as,
Can provide and by the webpage of the information of the product sold for supplier online) in embedded matchmaker
Body player is (such as,Player or HTML5 player).In another example,
Media Viewer 111 can be allow user check digital media item (such as, digital video,
Digital picture, e-book etc.) independent utility.
By server 130 and/or content shared platform 120, Media Viewer 111 can be provided
To client device 110A to 110Z.Such as, Media Viewer 111 can be embedded in by
Insertion-type media player in the webpage that content shared platform 120 is provided.Show at another
In example, Media Viewer 111 can be the application downloaded from server 130.
Normally, it is described as in one embodiment by performed by content shared platform 120
Function, if appropriate, it is also possible in other implementations at client device 110A
It is performed to 110Z.It addition, the function owing to specific components can be held by different assemblies
OK, or by multiple assemblies operated together perform.Content shared platform 120 can also be by closing
Suitable application programming interface, is accessed, therefore as the service being supplied to other system or equipment
It is not limited to use in website use.
In one embodiment, content shared platform 120 can be can be used for user
There is provided the access of media item and/or media item is supplied to user one or more calculating equipment
(such as rack-mount server, router computer, server computer, personal computer, big
Type computer, laptop computer, tablet PC, desk computer etc.), data storage
(such as, hard disk, memorizer, data base), network, component software and/or nextport hardware component NextPort.
Such as, content shared platform 120 can allow user to consume media item, upload, search
Rope, agree with (" liking "), do not like and/or comment on.Content shared platform 120 can also
Including website (such as, webpage), this website can be used for providing a user with media item
Access.
In embodiment of the present disclosure, " user " can be represented as independent individual.But,
Other embodiments of the disclosure comprise " user " as the entity controlled by the set of user
And/or the source of automatization.Such as, the set of the isolated user formed an alliance in social networks as community
" user " can be considered.In another example, user can be content shared platform 120
The picked-up pipeline of automatization, such as topic channel.
Content shared platform 120 can include multiple channel (such as, channel A to Z).Frequently
Road can be the data content that can obtain from common source, or has common theme, exercise question or essence
Data content.Data content can be digital content selected by the user, user is allowed to can
Obtain digital content, the digital content uploaded by user, by the number selected by content providers
Word content, by the digital content etc. selected by broadcaster.Such as, channel X can include video
Y and Z.Channel can be associated with the owner, and the described owner is can be to channel execution action
User.Different activities can be associated with channel based on possessory action, such as owns
Person makes digital content can obtain on this channel, the owner selects (such as, liking) with another
In the numeral that digital content that one channel is associated, the owner couple are associated with another channel
Hold and carry out comment etc..The activity being associated with this channel can be collected into the movable feedback of this channel
In sending.User in addition to the owner of this channel can subscribe to that one or more it is interested
Channel.The concept " subscribed to " can also be referred to as " liking ", " concern ", " become
Good friend " etc..
Once user subscribes to channel, can present the movable feeding from this channel to user
Information.If user subscribes to multiple channel, the movable feeding of each channel that this user subscribes to can
To be merged into the movable feeding of polymerization (syndicated).Can in the future auto polymerization activity feeding
Information presents to user.Channel can have the feeding of their own.Such as, when navigating to content
In shared platform during the homepage of channel, frequency can be illustrated in by feeding item produced by this channel
On road homepage.User can have polymerization feeding, and polymerization feeding is one and is subscribed to by from user
All channels content item at least one subset composition feeding.Polymerization feeding can also be wrapped
Include the content item of the channel do not subscribed to from user.Such as, content shared platform 120 or other
Social networks can insert the content item of recommendation in the polymerization feeding of user, or can be in polymerization
Feeding is inserted the content information being associated with the relevant connection of user.
Each channel can include one or more media item 121.The example of media item 121 can
To include and to be not limited in digital video, digital movie, digital photos, digital music, website
Appearance, social media renewal, e-book (ebook), e-magazine, digital newspaper, numeral sound
Frequently book, electronic journal, web blog, Simple Syndication (RSS) feeding, electronics comic books,
Software application etc..In some embodiments, media item 121 also referred to as media item.
Media item 121 can also via the Internet and/or via mobile device application be consumed.For
For the sake of brief and simple, run through this document and use Online Video (also designated hereinbelow as video)
Example as media item 121.As employed herein, " media ", " media item ", "
Line media item ", " Digital Media ", " digital media item ", " content " and " content item "
May be configured to use and be configured to present the software of digital media item, firmware or hard to entity
The e-file that part is performed or loads.In one embodiment, content shared platform 120
Data storage 106 storage media item 121 can be used.
In one embodiment, server 130 can be one or more calculating equipment (examples
As, rack-mount server, server computer etc.).In one embodiment, server 130
Can be included in content shared platform 120.Server 130 can include channel separation group
Part 140.Channel separation assembly 140 makes existing the channel (" target of content shared platform 120
Channel ") it is separated into two or more channels.The channel that existing channel can be separated into
The set of (" result channel ") can user based on existing channel consume existing user
The distribution of what content in channel.
In some embodiments, the UI assembly of content shared platform 120 pushes away to channel owners
Recommend the target channel separated.Once channel owners's approval and/or the separation of startup target channel,
Content item from target channel is identified as being associated with each result channel, and user's set
It is identified as subscribing to each result channel.Result is started subsequently in content shared platform 120
Channel is to include the user of identified content item and subscription.In some embodiments, pass through
Remove what all old feeding items from target channel and being replaced with were subscribed to from this user
Result channel suitably feed item, update the feeding of the user of subscription.
In some embodiments, the channel separation assembly 140 of server 130 can be with content
Shared platform 120 and/or mutual with other third party's social network server 150 to provide these public affairs
The embodiment opened.Channel separation assembly 140 and concrete function thereof are further described about
Fig. 2 is described in more detail below.
Although content shared platform and promote social networks in content shared platform to content item
Shared aspect discuss embodiment of the present disclosure, embodiment can also be applied generally
To any type of social networks providing connection between users.Embodiment of the present disclosure is not
It is limited to the content shared platform providing a user with channel subscription.
In the systematic collection discussed herein personal information relevant with user, maybe can utilize user
In the case of personal information, may provide the user with chance to control content shared platform 120 is
No collection user profile (such as, with social networks, Social behaviors or the activity of user, occupation,
The preference of user or the relevant information of the current position of user), or control whether and/or how
From content server receive may be more relevant with user content.It addition, specific data are permissible
Process in one or more ways before being stored or being used, therefore the recognizable information quilt of individual
Remove.Such as, the identity of user can be processed, and therefore cannot determine individual for this user
Recognizable information, or when geography information is acquired, the geographical position of user can be by extensive (example
As, to city, ZIP code or state rank), therefore the ad-hoc location of user can not be determined.Cause
This, user can control the data relevant with user how collected by content shared platform 120 and
Use.
Fig. 2 be a diagram that the channel separation assembly 140 of an embodiment according to the disclosure
Block diagram.In one embodiment, channel separation assembly 140 includes channel separation suggestion module
210, channel separation module 220 and channel separation UI generation module 230.General not losing
In the case of property, channel separation assembly 140 can include more or less of assembly.Such as, two
Individual module can be merged into individual module, or one of module can be divided into two or more
Module.In one embodiment, one or more in module may reside within different meters
Calculation equipment is (such as, on single client device or be distributed between multiple client device
Different server computers etc.) on.
Channel separation assembly 140 is communicatively coupled to data storage 106.Such as, channel divides
Can be via network (such as, via network 105 as illustrated in fig. 1) quilt from assembly 140
It is coupled to data storage 106.In another example, channel separation assembly 140 can be by directly
It is coupled to server that channel separation assembly 140 resided in (for example, it is possible to be directly coupled
To server 130).Data storage 106 can be memorizer (such as, random access memory),
Cache, driving (such as, hard drive), flash drive, Database Systems or can
Any type of assembly of storage data or equipment.Data storage 106 can also include multiple depositing
Storage assembly (such as, multiple drivings or multiple data base), the plurality of storage assembly can also
Cross over multiple calculating equipment (such as, multiple server computers).Data storage 106 includes
Content item data 290, user data 291, channel data 292, subscription data 293 and feeding
Data 294.
As previously discussed, channel separation assembly 140 makes the existing of content shared platform 120
Target channel is separated into two or more result channels.In one embodiment, channel
Separate suggestion module 210 and automatically determine when that target channel can separate.Separation frequency can be caused
The reason in road can have a lot.In one embodiment, separate channel can improve clearly
Mark is closely spent between channel and its user.Such as, degree mark can refer to that user is with another closely
The digital quantitative of the relation of an outer entity, described another one entity such as channel or another
User.Between user and other entities, (such as, channel, other users' etc.) is connected with each other
(such as, watch, like, comment on, label, mutual, similar connection etc.) is the most, closely
Degree mark is the highest.
In one embodiment, by user to the participation of channel (such as, watch, like,
Comment, label, mutual etc.) carry out giving a mark and generating the user for channel and closely spend mark.
The duration that the mark participated in occurs divided by participation subsequently, and be added in therewith by the mark after removing
Mark is closely spent between user and channel together to produce.The factor being likely to other is wrapped
Include in the calculating of degree mark closely.
In an exemplary scene, if the association user of channel (such as, subscription or with it
Its mode associates) in the half of content item of half viewing channel, and another in user
Partly second half in the content item of viewing channel, then the user of channel may be with this channel content
Have and relatively low closely spend mark, because user the half in being not involved in the content item of channel.?
In reader feeding, on " what is seen " page, the homepage of user first-class channel content item
Appearance aspect, the mark of degree closely of increase can be conducive to the ranking of channel.
In one embodiment, channel separation suggestion module 210 is for target channel identification one
Individual or the set of multiple result channel.In order to identify one or more result channel, channel separation
Suggestion module 210 may determine that user's set of target channel, and maps users to subsequently use
The set of the content item in the target channel that family has been watched.Channel separation suggestion module 210 is permissible
Access data storage 106 daily record (log) (such as content item data 290, user data 291,
Channel data 292, subscribe to data 293 and feeding data 294) with make target channel separates determine
Fixed.In some embodiments, channel separation suggestion module 210 can be as " scanning continuously
Device " perform, in all new incoming data of data storage 106, running assessment, and will
New assessment is integrated with in the long-term model safeguarded by channel separation suggestion module 210.
In one embodiment, it is possible to use cluster analysis, to have already viewed by based on user
From the probability of the same or similar set of the content item of this channel by user clustering to (example together
As, it is grouped based on similarity).Cluster analysis can refer to the set of object with one side
Formula packet task, than with the object in other groups (cluster), which makes identical
Object in group (referred to as cluster) the most increasingly similar (in some sense or another kind of).
Various different algorithms can be used to realize cluster analysis.After application cluster analysis, as
Really target channel has a dominant cluster, and this implies the most users viewing of this target channel
Identical collection of content items in target channel, and therefore target channel is not intended to the good of separation
Candidate.But, if target channel has two or more big to check group clustering, target
Channel could be for the good candidate separated.
In one embodiment, threshold value assessment is applied to the result cluster of user to determine this
Whether cluster triggers separation suggestion.Such as, if the number of users in Ju Lei exceedes predetermined use
The percentage ratio (in terms of the total number of users subscribing to target channel) of amount amount and/or user exceedes
Predetermined user's percentage ratio, then trigger for target channel and separate suggestion.
When target channel be determined as one good for the candidate separated time, channel separation is built
View module 210 advises separating channel to channel owners.In one embodiment, as above
Described, that channel separation UI module 230 can consume user based on user target channel content
On distribution, to channel owners advise separate target channel.Channel separation UI module 230 can
To provide the control (such as, UI interface element) for separating target channel to channel owners
With how the ordering of distribution objectives channel among result channel for notification channel separation module 220
Read the control of user.As the UI that channel owners is provided via channel separation UI module 230
Control instruction target channel when being separated, channel separation module 220 processes new result channel
Establishment, and user and content item distribution among new result channel.
In some embodiments, can be according to building that channel separation suggestion module 210 is provided
View carrys out performance objective channel separation.In other implementations, can be according to channel owners
The clear and definite instruction provided and parameter carry out performance objective channel separation.Such as, channel owners
Can be identified as the content item of target channel clearly being associated with result channel.
Existing target channel can be re-used as one of result channel by channel separation module 220,
Or channel separation module 220 can create completely new result channel, and abandon, achieve or tie up
Hold target channel.Channel separation module 220 can also be by the content item identification from target channel
For with each result channel phase-polymerization.This can be selected by user, based on watching each content item
The distribution of user automatically process or plan based on existing content item exhibition (curation), all
Such as playlist.In some embodiments, content item and two result channels can be correlated with
Connection.
Channel separation module 220 can also identify that the set of user and/or subscriber is each to add to
Result channel.In some embodiments, all booking readers from target channel are added
And/or subscribe to each result channel.In other embodiments, channel separation module 220
Consume the content item of (such as, checking) based on each user and such content item will be divided
The result channel that cloth arrives, identifies that the subset of user of target channel is to add each result channel to.
Channel separation module 220 can be by knot new for the corresponding subscribing notification to those result channels
The really user of channel.In some embodiments, user automatically can be subscribed to correspondence
Result channel.Can inform the user and automatically subscribe to and also cancellation can be provided to described user
The chance subscribed to.In other embodiments, awarding from user is required for new subscribing to
Power.Automatically do not ordered it addition, channel separation module 220 provides a user with chance with booking reader
Other result channels read.
By removing the old feeding item from target channel, and these feeding items are replaced with
From the corresponding new feeding item of the result channel that current user subscribes to, channel separation module 220
Can next update the feeding of booking reader.It addition, channel separation UI module 230 can be by
Format and other UI elements be associated with each result channel, including and be not limited to, it is provided that name
Word, individual brief introduction head portrait, title bar, and other formattings to each result channel.Frequently
The road owner can be mutual with channel separation UI module 230 to provide and being used for formatting each knot
The really input of channel.
Fig. 3 be illustrate some embodiments according to the disclosure for advising target channel
The flow chart of the method 300 separated.Method 300 can by include hardware (such as, circuit,
Special logic, FPGA, microcode etc.), software (such as, operate in processing equipment
On with perform simulation hardware instruction) or a combination thereof process logic perform.
For the simplicity explained, disclosed method is depicted and is described as a series of actions.
But, can occur in a different order and/or simultaneously according to the action of the disclosure, and permissible
Occur together with acts not presented and described herein.Further, for realizing according to institute
The method of open theme, it may not be necessary to require the action of all diagrams.It addition, art technology
Personnel will understand and appreciate that, the method can optionally be expressed via state diagram or event
For a series of correlation behaviors.In addition, it will be appreciated that method disclosed in this specification can be deposited
Storage by the transport of such method and is transferred to calculating equipment with promotion on goods.Such as institute herein
The term " goods " used is intended to obtain from any computer readable device or storage medium
The computer program taken.In one embodiment, method 300 can be by such as Fig. 1 and Fig. 2
Performed by shown channel separation assembly 140.
With reference to Fig. 3, when the identification of the target channel for the cluster analysis relevant with channel separation
When being received, method 300 starts from block 310.In one embodiment, utilize existing
User and the long-term model of channel daily record data, continuously perform cluster analysis for target channel,
Described channel daily record data is any based on received for the user of content shared platform and channel
New daily record data and be updated.At block 320, the user corresponding with target channel is known
Not.User can be the booking reader of target channel.
Subsequently, at block 330, identified user is mapped to the cluster corresponding with user
Content item.At block 340, watch content item in target channel based on user in cluster
The probability of same or similar set, is one or more cluster by user grouping.This packet utilizes
Mapping performed by block 330.
Subsequently, determining at block 350, determining whether the packet at block 340 causes more than one
Cluster.If it is not, method 300 proceeds to block 380, it is determined here that this target channel is not to use
Good candidate in channel separation.On the other hand, if there being more than one cluster, method 300
Proceed to determine block 360, where it is determined whether each result cluster reaches making a reservation for for cluster
Threshold condition.Such as, threshold condition potentially includes predetermined number of users, and cluster should reach
And/or exceed described predetermined number of users.Threshold condition be likely to include user's percentage ratio (
The total aspect of the user of the subscription of target channel), cluster should reach and/or exceed this percentage
Ratio.If not up to threshold condition, then as it was noted above, method 300 proceeds to block 380.
On the other hand, if determining at block 360, result cluster reaches threshold condition, then side
Method 300 proceeds to block 370.At block 370, target channel is considered as channel separation
Good candidate, and the suggestion of channel owners's notified separation target channel.
Fig. 4 be a diagram that according to embodiment of the present disclosure for the method separating target channel
The flow chart of 400.Method 400 can by include hardware (such as, circuit, special logic, can
Programmed logic, microcode etc.), software (such as, run on a processing device to perform hardware
The instruction of emulation) or the process logic execution of a combination thereof.In one embodiment, method 400
Can be performed by the channel separation assembly 140 shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2.
With reference to Fig. 4, when the notice of the channel owners from target channel is received, method 400
Start from block 410.In one embodiment, notice includes the finger from channel owners
Order, instruction is for continuing to separate mesh according to the channel separation suggestion provided by content shared platform
Mark channel, such as by the channel separation suggestion provided about the method 300 described by Fig. 3.?
In other embodiment, channel owners can advise independent of channel separation, starts channel
Lock out operation.
At block 420, the set of result channel is identified.Result channel can with pass through channel
Some clusters that separation cluster analysis is identified are corresponding, and described cluster analysis is about target channel
It is performed.Such as, permissible about the channel separation cluster analysis described by the method 300 of Fig. 3
Produce the one or more clusters corresponding with target channel.These clusters can each represent mesh
The result channel of mark channel.
At block 430, the content item from target channel is identified as being aggregated to each result frequency
Road.In one embodiment, content item is associated with and is aggregated to result channel, this content
Item is used for the user via cluster analysis cluster target channel.Subsequently, at block 440, order
The set readding user is identified as adding each result channel to.Similar with content item, according to mesh
The mark cluster analysis of channel and user's set of being grouped together is associated with and adds correspondence to
Result channel.In some embodiments, user subscribes to their correspondence with being automatically also
Result channel.
Subsequently, at block 450, the feeding of booking reader is updated to reflect that user is added to
Result channel.In one embodiment, from target channel old feeding item by from
Family feeding removes, and the corresponding of the result channel being used for subscribing to now from user newly feeds item
Replace described old feeding item.Finally, at block 460, each result channel is in order to check
Purpose is formatted.Such as, the UI element for each result channel is configured, wherein UI
Element can include, but are not limited to provide name, individual brief introduction head portrait, title bar and other
Formatting to each result channel.Channel owners can be with content shared platform alternately to carry
For the input for formatting each result channel.
Fig. 5 be a diagram that according to embodiment of the present disclosure for about separating target channel
The method 500 mutual with the channel owners of the target channel at client device.Method 500 can
With by include hardware (such as, circuit, special logic, FPGA, microcode etc.),
Software (such as, running on a processing device to perform the instruction of simulation hardware) or a combination thereof
Process logic performs.In one embodiment, method 500 can be by as in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2
Shown client device 110A-110Z performs.
With reference to Fig. 5, when separating the suggestion of the target channel channel owners via target channel
When the GUI of client device is received, method 500 starts from block 510.An enforcement
In mode, client device is mobile device.Target channel can include content shared platform
Multiple content items.In some embodiments, channel owners can also be referred to as having user.
At block 520, promote the input of the channel owners from target channel via GUI.?
In one embodiment, input includes the instruction separating target channel according to suggestion.
Subsequently, at block 530, channel owners is notified by separating target frequency via GUI
Obtained by road multiple result channels.In one embodiment, in multiple result channels
Each result channel includes the subset of multiple content items of target channel.At block 540, via
GUI promotes the input from channel owners, and wherein said input is multiple with target channel
One or more content items in content item are corresponding to be aggregated to each result channel.Finally,
At block 550, promote the additional input from channel owners via GUI, wherein said
Additional input specifies the UI element formatting each result channel.
Fig. 6 illustrates the exemplary shape of the computer system 600 that can perform instruction set wherein
The graphic representation of the machine in formula, described instruction set is used for so that this machine performs to be begged for herein
Any one or more in the methodology of opinion.In the embodiment of alternative, machine can be by
Connect (such as, being networked) to other machines in LAN, Intranet, extranet or the Internet
Device.This machine can be as server or client machine in client-sever network environment
Operation, or operate as peer in equity (or distributed) network environment.This machine can
Be personal computer (PC), flat board PC, Set Top Box (STB), personal digital assistant (PDA),
Cell phone, web electrical equipment, server, network router, switch or bridger or any
Being able to carry out the machine of instruction set (order or otherwise), wherein instruction set is specified
This machine actions to be taken.Further, although only individual machine is illustrated, term " machine
Device " can also be used to include performing instruction set (or multiple instruction set) respectively or jointly
To perform the Arbitrary Sets of any one or more machine in methodology discussed herein
Close.
Exemplary computer system 600 includes the processing equipment (place communicated with one another via bus 608
Reason device) 602, main storage 604 (such as, read only memory (ROM), flash memory,
Such as synchronous dram (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM) dynamic with
Machine access memorizer (DRAM) etc.), static memory 606 (such as, flash memory,
Static RAM (SRAM) etc.) and data storage device 618.
Processor 602 represents one or more general purpose processing device, such as microprocessor, central authorities
Processing unit etc..More particularly, processor 602 can be that sophisticated vocabulary calculates (CISC)
Microprocessor, Jing Ke Cao Neng (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW)
Microprocessor, or realize the processor of other instruction set, or realize the process of the combination of instruction set
Device.Processor 602 can also be one or more dedicated treatment facility, the most special integrated electricity
Road (ASIC), field programmable gate array (FPGA), digital signal processor (DSP),
Network processing unit etc..Processor 602 is configured to perform for performing behaviour discussed herein
Make and the instruction 626 of step.
Computer system 600 may further include Network Interface Unit 622.Computer system
600 can also include video display unit 610 (such as, liquid crystal display (LCD), negative electrode
Ray tube (CRT) or touch screen), Alphanumeric Entry Device 612 (such as, keyboard),
Cursor control device 614 (such as, mouse) and signal generate equipment 620 (such as, speaker).
Data storage device 618 can include that on it, storage has one or more instruction 626 (example
Such as, software) computer-readable recording medium 624 that collects, instruction 626 embodiment is described herein
Methodology or function in any one or more.When instruction 626 by computer system 600,
When the processor 602 of main storage 604 and same composition computer-readable recording medium performs,
Instruction 626 can also completely or at least partially reside at main storage 604 and/or processor 602
In.Instruction 626 can be transmitted by network 674 via Network Interface Unit 622 further
Or received.
In one embodiment, instruction 626 includes instruction and/or software library, and described instruction is used
In channel separation assembly 140, it can of the same name right with described in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 respectively
Answering thing corresponding, described software library comprises the method for the channel for separating content shared platform.
Although computer-readable recording medium 624 is shown as single medium in the exemplary embodiment,
Term " computer-readable recording medium " should be read to include the one or more instruction set of storage
Single medium or multiple medium (such as, central type or distributed data base, and/or be associated
Cache and server).Term " computer-readable recording medium " should be understood bag
Include and arbitrarily can store, decode or carry for being executable by a machine and make machine to perform the disclosure
Methodology in the arbitrary medium of any one or more instruction set." computer can for term
Read storage medium " should therefore be understood to include but be not limited to solid-state memory, optical medium and
Magnetizing mediums.
In described above, it is proposed that a lot of details.But, to the basis benefited from the disclosure
It is readily apparent that the disclosure can not have these details for skilled person
In the case of put into practice.In some instances, it is thus well known that structure and equipment in form of a block diagram and
Be not details be illustrated, thus the disclosure of avoiding confusion.
The some parts described in detail with in computer storage to the algorithm of data byte and
The mode that symbol represents is presented.These arthmetic statements and expression are by the skill of data processing field
The means that art personnel are used, to pass to other abilities by the essence that they work most effectively
Field technique personnel.Herein and normally, algorithm is contemplated to produce the step of expected results
Self-compatibility sequence.Step needs to carry out physical quantity the step of physical manipulation.Generally, although not
Being necessary, this tittle uses and can be stored, transmits, combines, compares and otherwise
The electronic signal handled or the form of magnetic signal.Repeatedly proved, mainly for generally using,
It is easily by these signals as bits, value, element, symbol, character, item, numeral etc..
But, should keep firmly in mind, all these and similar term all should be with suitable physical quantity phase
Association, and be only the convenient label being applied to this tittle.Unless specially declared or with other side
Formula is apparent from discussion below, it should be understood that run through this descriptions, utilization such as " splits ",
" analyze ", " determination ", " enable ", " identification ", the discussion of the term such as " amendment "
Refer to computer system or the action of similar electronic computing device or process, these actions
Or process physics (such as, the electricity in the RS being represented as computer system
Son) data of amount carry out handling and being converted into being similarly represented as this computer system
Physical quantity in memorizer or depositor or the storage of other such information, transmission or display device
Other data.
The disclosure is directed to apparatuses for performing the operations herein.This device can be in order to required
Purpose is built especially, or described device can comprise by the computer being stored in computer-internal
The general purpose computer being activated or reconfigured by procedure Selection.Such computer program can be by
It is stored in computer-readable recording medium, but described computer-readable recording medium is the most not
Be limited to, including floppy disk, CD, CD-ROM and magneto-optic disk any type of dish, read-only deposit
Reservoir (ROM), random access memory (RAM), EPROM, EEPROM, magnetic
Light card or be suitable for store e-command any type of medium.
Word used herein " example " or " exemplary " refer to as example, example or figure
Show.Any aspect of describing as " example " or " exemplary " herein or design not necessarily by
It is construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or design.On the contrary, word " example " or " example
Property " use be intended to present in a concrete fashion concept.As used in this specification, term
"or" is intended to indicate that the "or" of pardon rather than exclusive "or".That is, unless with it
He specifies at mode, or obvious from context, and " X includes A or B " is intended to indicate that nature includes
Property arrangement in any one.That is, if X includes A, X and includes B, or X include A and
B, then, in any one of examples detailed above, meet " X includes A or B ".Additionally, as used
The article " one " and " one " that use in the application and claims generally will be solved
Be interpreted as meaning " one or more ", unless otherwise specify or from context obviously
Learn and refer to singulative.Additionally, term " embodiment " or " embodiment " or " real
Execute mode " or the use of " embodiment " be not intended to represent identical embodiment or embodiment party
Formula, unless so described.
Run through this specification " embodiment " or " embodiment " are quoted refer to
It is real that the special characteristic of the description that this embodiment is associated, structure or characteristic are included at least one
Execute in example.Therefore, many places phrase " in one embodiment " is run through in this specification " in reality
Execute in example " appearance not necessarily all refer to identical embodiment.It addition, term "or" is intended to
Represent the "or" of pardon rather than exclusive "or".
It will be appreciated that foregoing description is intended to illustrative and not restrictive.Other are implemented
Mode is being read and after understanding foregoing description to it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that.
Therefore, the scope of the present disclosure should refer to claims and these claim is composed
The four corner of the equivalent given determines.
Claims (25)
1. a method, including:
The result channel of target channel, the most each described result is stemmed from by processing equipment identification
Channel is gathered corresponding with the user of described target channel, and described user set is checked from described
The similar set of the content item of target channel；And
For each described result channel:
By described processing equipment, the described user corresponding with described result channel is collected file
Read described result channel；And
By described processing equipment, the described set of the described content item of described target channel is closed
It is linked to described result channel, the subscription of the described set of described content item and described result channel
User gathers corresponding.
Method the most according to claim 1, wherein, is provided institute by content shared platform
State result channel and described target channel.
Method the most according to claim 1, wherein, described identification farther includes:
The described user of described target channel is mapped to the described target frequency that described user has checked
The described content item in road；
The probability of the described similar set of described content item has been checked, by described in view of described user
User grouping is described user set；And
When each be grouped user's set exceedes the threshold level of user, it is grouped each
User's set associative to the corresponding result channel in described result channel.
Method the most according to claim 3, wherein, the threshold level of described user is at least
Quantity or the percentage ratio of user including user.
Method the most according to claim 1, farther includes: for each result channel,
Update the feeding of corresponding user's set of described result channel to reflect described result channel.
Method the most according to claim 5, wherein, described renewal farther include for
Each user in described user set:
Remove the feeding item corresponding with described target channel；And
The described feeding item corresponding with described target channel is replaced with the feedback of described result channel
Send item.
Method the most according to claim 1, wherein, described identification farther includes:
Advise described target channel is separated into described result frequency to the owner of described target channel
Road；And
Receive from described possessory confirmation to continue described target channel is separated into described knot
Really channel.
Method the most according to claim 1, farther includes: for each result channel,
Utilize the UI element of described target channel to be automatically generated for the user interface of described result channel
UI, wherein said UI element at least some of the most corresponding with the set of described content item, described
The set of content item is corresponding with described result channel.
Method the most according to claim 1, wherein, corresponding with result channel described in
The set of content item is the most overlapping.
Method the most according to claim 1, wherein, described target channel includes having
The content item of at least one in common theme, exercise question or essence.
11. methods according to claim 1, wherein, described target channel includes having
The content item of common source.
12. 1 kinds of devices, including:
Display device；
It is communicably coupled to the memorizer of described display device；And
Being communicably coupled to the processing equipment of described memorizer, described processing equipment is used for performing to refer to
Make with:
Identify and stem from the result channel of target channel, the most each described result channel with
The user of described target channel gathers corresponding, and described user set is checked from described target frequency
The similar set of the content item in road；And
For each described result channel:
The described user set corresponding with described result channel is subscribed to described knot
Really channel；And
By the described set associative of the described content item of described target channel to described knot
Really channel, the user of the described set of described content item and the subscription of described result channel gathers phase
Corresponding.
13. devices according to claim 12, wherein, described processing equipment is used for identifying
Described result channel farther include described processing equipment for:
The described user of described target channel is mapped to the described target frequency that described user has checked
The described content item in road；
The probability of the described similar set of described content item has been checked, by described in view of described user
User grouping is described user set；And
When each be grouped user's set exceedes the threshold level of user, it is grouped each
User's set associative to the corresponding result channel of described result channel；
Wherein, the threshold level of described user at least includes the quantity of user or the percentage ratio of user.
14. devices according to claim 12, wherein, described processing equipment is used further
Come: for each result channel, update the feeding of corresponding user's set of described result channel
To reflect described result channel.
15. devices according to claim 12, wherein, described processing equipment is used for identifying
Described result channel farther include described processing equipment for:
Advise described target channel is separated into described result frequency to the owner of described target channel
Road；And
Receive from described possessory confirmation to continue described target channel is separated into described knot
Really channel.
16. devices according to claim 12, wherein, described processing equipment is used further
Come: for each result channel, utilize the UI element of described target channel to be automatically generated for
User interface UI of described result channel, wherein said UI element at least some of and described in
The set holding item is corresponding, and the set of described content item is corresponding with described result channel.
17. devices according to claim 12, wherein, are provided by content shared platform
Described result channel and described target channel, and wherein, described target channel includes having altogether
The content item of the described content shared platform of at least one in same theme, exercise question, essence or source.
18. 1 kinds of non-transitory machinable mediums storing instruction, described instruction is at quilt
Making processing equipment perform operation during execution, described operation includes:
The result channel of target channel, the most each described result is stemmed from by processing equipment identification
Channel is gathered corresponding with the user of described target channel, and described user set is checked from described
The similar set of the content item of target channel；And
For each described result channel:
By described processing equipment, the described user corresponding with described result channel is collected file
Read described result channel；And
By described processing equipment, the described set of the described content item of described target channel is closed
It is linked to described result channel, the subscription of the described set of described content item and described result channel
User gathers corresponding.
19. non-transitory machinable mediums according to claim 18, wherein,
Described identification farther includes:
The described user of described target channel is mapped to the described target frequency that described user has checked
The described content item in road；
The probability of the described similar set of described content item has been checked, by described in view of described user
User grouping is described user set；And
When each be grouped user's set exceedes the threshold level of user, it is grouped each
User's set associative to the corresponding result channel in described result channel；
Wherein, the threshold level of described user at least includes the quantity of user or the percentage ratio of user.
20. non-transitory machinable medium according to claim 18, wherein,
Described identification farther includes:
Advise described target channel is separated into described result frequency to the owner of described target channel
Road；And
Receive from described possessory confirmation to continue described target channel is separated into described knot
Really channel.
21. non-transitory machinable mediums according to claim 18, further
Including: for each result channel, utilize the UI element of described target channel to automatically generate use
In user interface UI of described result channel, wherein said UI element at least some of with described
The set of content item is corresponding, and the set of described content item is corresponding with described result channel.
22. non-transitory machinable mediums according to claim 18, wherein,
Described result channel and described target channel is provided by content shared platform, and wherein, institute
State at least one described that target channel includes having in common theme, exercise question, essence or source
The content item of content shared platform.
23. 1 kinds of methods, including:
The suggestion separating target channel, institute is received via the graphic user interface GUI of mobile device
State target channel and include multiple content item；
The input having user from described target channel is promoted via described GUI, described
Input includes the instruction separating described target channel according to described suggestion；And
Described by separating to having user's notice described in described target channel via described GUI
Multiple result channels obtained by target channel, each result frequency in the plurality of result channel
Road includes the subset of the plurality of content item.
24. methods according to claim 23, farther include to promote via described GUI
Having the input of user described in coming in certainly, described input is one or more with described target channel
Content item is corresponding to be aggregated to each described result channel.
25. methods according to claim 23, farther include to promote via described GUI
Having the input of user described in coming in certainly, described input specifies user interface UI element to format
Each described result channel.
Applications Claiming Priority (7)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201461944493P | 2014-02-25 | 2014-02-25 | |
US201461944495P | 2014-02-25 | 2014-02-25 | |
US61/944,493 | 2014-02-25 | ||
US61/944,495 | 2014-02-25 | ||
US14/588,135 | 2014-12-31 | ||
US14/588,135 US9872058B2 (en) | 2014-02-25 | 2014-12-31 | Splitting content channels |
PCT/US2015/017574 WO2015130822A1 (en) | 2014-02-25 | 2015-02-25 | Splitting content channels |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN106030650A true CN106030650A (en) | 2016-10-12 |
CN106030650B CN106030650B (en) | 2020-08-25 |
Family
ID=53883534
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201580010558.0A Active CN106063282B (en) | 2014-02-25 | 2015-02-25 | Merge content channel |
CN201580010537.9A Active CN106030650B (en) | 2014-02-25 | 2015-02-25 | Separating content channels |
Family Applications Before (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201580010558.0A Active CN106063282B (en) | 2014-02-25 | 2015-02-25 | Merge content channel |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US9936242B2 (en) |
EP (2) | EP3111415A4 (en) |
CN (2) | CN106063282B (en) |
WO (2) | WO2015130822A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (10)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US10045088B2 (en) * | 2014-09-30 | 2018-08-07 | At&T Intellectual Property I, L.P. | Method and apparatus for distributing content locally |
CA2988108C (en) | 2015-06-01 | 2023-10-10 | Benjamin Aaron Miller | Break state detection in content management systems |
EP4224330A3 (en) | 2015-06-01 | 2024-01-24 | Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. | Content segmentation and time reconciliation |
US10224027B2 (en) | 2015-06-01 | 2019-03-05 | Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. | Rights management and syndication of content |
US10855765B2 (en) | 2016-05-20 | 2020-12-01 | Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. | Content atomization |
US10601953B2 (en) * | 2016-09-22 | 2020-03-24 | Adobe Inc. | Decomposing media content accounts for persona-based experience individualization |
US10929450B2 (en) * | 2017-02-06 | 2021-02-23 | Flipboard, Inc. | Customizing digital content with editorial content |
CN110545456B (en) * | 2018-05-29 | 2022-04-01 | 北京字节跳动网络技术有限公司 | Synchronous playing method and device of media files and storage medium |
US10708372B2 (en) | 2018-12-03 | 2020-07-07 | Bank Of America Corporation | Centralized communication interface for channel integration and interaction expansion |
CN109889880B (en) * | 2019-04-11 | 2021-02-12 | 北京字节跳动网络技术有限公司 | Information display method, device, equipment and storage medium for concerned user |
Citations (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN1992683A (en) * | 2005-12-28 | 2007-07-04 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Method and system for implementing group subscription service |
WO2010101851A1 (en) * | 2009-03-04 | 2010-09-10 | Facebook, Inc. | Filtering content in a social networking service |
US20110145064A1 (en) * | 2009-09-11 | 2011-06-16 | Vitrue, Inc. | Systems and methods for managing content associated with multiple brand categories within a social media system |
US20110321072A1 (en) * | 2010-06-29 | 2011-12-29 | Google Inc. | Self-Service Channel Marketplace |
US20120059795A1 (en) * | 2010-07-01 | 2012-03-08 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Methods and systems for providing enhancements to a business networking feed |
CN103329560A (en) * | 2010-08-26 | 2013-09-25 | 泰瑞克·塔勒布 | System and method for creating multimedia content channel customized for social network |
Family Cites Families (22)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20030126600A1 (en) | 2001-12-27 | 2003-07-03 | Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. | Smart suggestions for upcoming TV programs |
US20050132420A1 (en) | 2003-12-11 | 2005-06-16 | Quadrock Communications, Inc | System and method for interaction with television content |
CN100557583C (en) * | 2005-04-07 | 2009-11-04 | 索尼株式会社 | The control device and the method for control replay device playback of content |
JP2008293211A (en) * | 2007-05-23 | 2008-12-04 | Hitachi Ltd | Item recommendation system |
US20100082650A1 (en) * | 2008-09-24 | 2010-04-01 | Davin Wong | Method, System, and Apparatus for Ranking Media Sharing Channels |
GB2472264B (en) | 2009-07-31 | 2014-12-17 | British Sky Broadcasting Ltd | Media substitution system |
TR200909517A2 (en) * | 2009-12-17 | 2011-07-21 | Vestel Elektron�K San. Ve T�C. A.�. | PRODUCTION METHOD OF PERSONAL TV CONTENT RECOMMENDED LIST |
JP2011182146A (en) * | 2010-03-01 | 2011-09-15 | Hitachi Ltd | Viewing control apparatus and viewing control system |
US8745206B1 (en) * | 2010-06-07 | 2014-06-03 | Purplecomm Inc. | Content monitoring and control technology |
US8370874B1 (en) | 2010-06-07 | 2013-02-05 | Purplecomm Inc. | Subscription and channel management technology |
US20120143700A1 (en) | 2010-09-25 | 2012-06-07 | Santanu Bhattacharya | Method and system for designing social media campaign |
US20120185892A1 (en) | 2011-01-19 | 2012-07-19 | Fliptop, Inc., a corporation of CA | System and method for managing multiple content channels and engagement scoring |
US8826313B2 (en) | 2011-03-04 | 2014-09-02 | CSC Holdings, LLC | Predictive content placement on a managed services systems |
EP2697935A4 (en) | 2011-04-11 | 2014-09-24 | Scribble Technologies Inc | System and method for syndicating dynamic content for online publication |
US9098859B2 (en) | 2011-04-27 | 2015-08-04 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Bringing achievements to an offline world |
EP2518992A1 (en) | 2011-04-28 | 2012-10-31 | Axel Springer Digital TV Guide GmbH | Apparatus and method for managing a personal channel |
CN102630052B (en) * | 2012-04-16 | 2014-10-15 | 上海交通大学 | Real time streaming-oriented television program recommendation system |
US20140095611A1 (en) * | 2012-10-01 | 2014-04-03 | Wetpaint.Com, Inc. | Personalization through dynamic social channels |
US20140229293A1 (en) * | 2013-02-13 | 2014-08-14 | Sandra Liu Huang | Techniques for facilitating the promotion of organic content |
CN103297853B (en) * | 2013-06-07 | 2016-04-06 | 华东师范大学 | A kind of IPTV program commending method based on multi-user's context identification |
US9578382B2 (en) * | 2013-06-26 | 2017-02-21 | Google Inc. | Subscribable channel collections |
CN103596022A (en) * | 2013-10-08 | 2014-02-19 | 深圳创维数字技术股份有限公司 | Method, device and system for content matching |
-
2014
- 2014-12-31 US US14/588,152 patent/US9936242B2/en active Active
- 2014-12-31 US US14/588,135 patent/US9872058B2/en active Active
-
2015
- 2015-02-25 CN CN201580010558.0A patent/CN106063282B/en active Active
- 2015-02-25 EP EP15755574.9A patent/EP3111415A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2015-02-25 EP EP15755332.2A patent/EP3111637A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2015-02-25 WO PCT/US2015/017574 patent/WO2015130822A1/en active Application Filing
- 2015-02-25 CN CN201580010537.9A patent/CN106030650B/en active Active
- 2015-02-25 WO PCT/US2015/017577 patent/WO2015130825A1/en active Application Filing
Patent Citations (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN1992683A (en) * | 2005-12-28 | 2007-07-04 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Method and system for implementing group subscription service |
WO2010101851A1 (en) * | 2009-03-04 | 2010-09-10 | Facebook, Inc. | Filtering content in a social networking service |
US20110145064A1 (en) * | 2009-09-11 | 2011-06-16 | Vitrue, Inc. | Systems and methods for managing content associated with multiple brand categories within a social media system |
US20110321072A1 (en) * | 2010-06-29 | 2011-12-29 | Google Inc. | Self-Service Channel Marketplace |
US20120059795A1 (en) * | 2010-07-01 | 2012-03-08 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Methods and systems for providing enhancements to a business networking feed |
CN103329560A (en) * | 2010-08-26 | 2013-09-25 | 泰瑞克·塔勒布 | System and method for creating multimedia content channel customized for social network |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
EP3111637A1 (en) | 2017-01-04 |
EP3111415A4 (en) | 2017-07-12 |
US20150245083A1 (en) | 2015-08-27 |
US9872058B2 (en) | 2018-01-16 |
CN106063282A (en) | 2016-10-26 |
CN106030650B (en) | 2020-08-25 |
EP3111415A1 (en) | 2017-01-04 |
WO2015130825A1 (en) | 2015-09-03 |
US20150245094A1 (en) | 2015-08-27 |
WO2015130822A1 (en) | 2015-09-03 |
EP3111637A4 (en) | 2017-07-05 |
CN106063282B (en) | 2019-05-28 |
US9936242B2 (en) | 2018-04-03 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN106030650A (en) | Splitting content channels | |
CN105431834B (en) | The personalization of content shared platform and continuous playlist are created based on user's history | |
Ellison et al. | Social media and local government: Citizenship, consumption and democracy | |
Tinati et al. | Identifying communicator roles in twitter | |
Beaufort | Digital media, political polarization and challenges to democracy | |
US20150207901A1 (en) | Metadata prediction of objects in a social networking system using crowd sourcing | |
US10154312B2 (en) | Systems and methods for ranking and providing related media content based on signals | |
US11093567B1 (en) | Ranking content using sharing attribution | |
CN106537437A (en) | Identifying media channels that have a high likelihood of multiple consumptions by one or more users | |
Acker et al. | Tweets may be archived: civic engagement, digital preservation and Obama White House social media data | |
Schneider et al. | Towards a typology of social news apps from a Crowd Computing perspective | |
KR20100105637A (en) | Centralized social network response tracking | |
CN107257982A (en) | The content being adapted to children is recognized in the case of without manual intervention on algorithm | |
Shang et al. | A micro-video recommendation system based on big data | |
US11455327B1 (en) | Subscribe to people in videos | |
CN107615789A (en) | The notice orientation participated in based on downstream user | |
Berkovsky et al. | Personalised network activity feeds: finding needles in the haystacks | |
US11366562B2 (en) | Online engagement platform for video creators | |
Wonders et al. | Information sampling and linking: Reality hunger and the digital knowledge commons | |
Coppens et al. | Unifying and targeting cultural activities via events modelling and profiling | |
CN115730111B (en) | Content distribution method, apparatus, device and computer readable storage medium | |
US11966433B1 (en) | Subscribe to people in videos | |
EP2748778A1 (en) | Online communities | |
Kollányi | The automatization of social media communication-Exploring the development of bot codes on GitHub and the use of open-source bots on Twitter | |
Bull | Culture in a cold climate |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |