CN115565670A - Method for medical diagnosis - Google Patents
Method for medical diagnosis Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN115565670A CN115565670A CN202211258695.4A CN202211258695A CN115565670A CN 115565670 A CN115565670 A CN 115565670A CN 202211258695 A CN202211258695 A CN 202211258695A CN 115565670 A CN115565670 A CN 115565670A
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- findings
- medical
- computer
- patient
- implemented method
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Pending
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H50/00—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics
- G16H50/20—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics for computer-aided diagnosis, e.g. based on medical expert systems
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N5/00—Computing arrangements using knowledge-based models
- G06N5/01—Dynamic search techniques; Heuristics; Dynamic trees; Branch-and-bound
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N5/00—Computing arrangements using knowledge-based models
- G06N5/04—Inference or reasoning models
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N5/00—Computing arrangements using knowledge-based models
- G06N5/04—Inference or reasoning models
- G06N5/045—Explanation of inference; Explainable artificial intelligence [XAI]; Interpretable artificial intelligence
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06N—COMPUTING ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SPECIFIC COMPUTATIONAL MODELS
- G06N7/00—Computing arrangements based on specific mathematical models
- G06N7/01—Probabilistic graphical models, e.g. probabilistic networks
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q10/00—Administration; Management
- G06Q10/10—Office automation; Time management
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q50/00—Systems or methods specially adapted for specific business sectors, e.g. utilities or tourism
- G06Q50/10—Services
- G06Q50/22—Social work
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H10/00—ICT specially adapted for the handling or processing of patient-related medical or healthcare data
- G16H10/60—ICT specially adapted for the handling or processing of patient-related medical or healthcare data for patient-specific data, e.g. for electronic patient records
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H50/00—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics
- G16H50/70—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics for mining of medical data, e.g. analysing previous cases of other patients
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H70/00—ICT specially adapted for the handling or processing of medical references
- G16H70/20—ICT specially adapted for the handling or processing of medical references relating to practices or guidelines
-
- Y—GENERAL TAGGING OF NEW TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS; GENERAL TAGGING OF CROSS-SECTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES SPANNING OVER SEVERAL SECTIONS OF THE IPC; TECHNICAL SUBJECTS COVERED BY FORMER USPC CROSS-REFERENCE ART COLLECTIONS [XRACs] AND DIGESTS
- Y02—TECHNOLOGIES OR APPLICATIONS FOR MITIGATION OR ADAPTATION AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE
- Y02A—TECHNOLOGIES FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE
- Y02A90/00—Technologies having an indirect contribution to adaptation to climate change
- Y02A90/10—Information and communication technologies [ICT] supporting adaptation to climate change, e.g. for weather forecasting or climate simulation
Abstract
A computer-implemented method of facilitating medical diagnosis of a patient is disclosed, the method comprising: providing an interactive relationship tree through a graphical user interface, wherein the relationship tree represents one or more diagnosis-discovery relationship sequences between findings and diagnoses of a medical condition, with respective likelihood scores indicating a correlation of the medical condition with a patient; detecting a selection of a node in the interactive relationship tree, wherein the selection of the node indicates a selection by a healthcare provider of additional findings indicative of one or more most likely medical conditions of the patient; updating a set of known findings by adding selected additional findings to the set of known findings; and displaying, by the graphical user interface, the updated interactive relationship tree based on the updated set of known findings.
Description
The application is a divisional application of an invention patent application with the application date of 2018, 08 and 23 months, and the Chinese application number of 201810965569.X, and the invention name of a diagnostic validity tool.
Technical Field
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of diagnostic and therapeutic decision making.
Background
The diagnostic process begins when the patient arrives with the complaint. Before seeing the patient, the physician first searches the patient's medical history for relevant findings in the patient's medical history. From these findings, he created differential diagnoses, a broad list of diagnoses ranked based on prevalence of each disease. The decision to perform a test for discovery (question asking, test procedure performing, diagnostic test ordering, etc.) is based on the following:
the effectiveness of the finding in identifying the highest ranked diagnosis (depending on the positive and negative Likelihood Ratio (LR) of the finding for each disease);
the ability of this finding to rule out urgent disease (e.g., chest pain patients should use an electrocardiogram to rule out myocardial infarction, although rare); and
the cost of obtaining the finding (iatrogenic risk, resource availability, timeliness, etc.).
The physician interprets each newly acquired finding in the context of the patient's medical history, which changes the probability of each possible diagnosis. This process occurs after each clinical decision. Once there are enough findings to support a definitive diagnosis (a high probability diagnosis with low probability alternatives), a diagnosis is made and treatment is initiated.
For various reasons, the above-described process may be inefficient and not cost-effective. On the one hand, a physician may not have the time to search medical records for all relevant findings in a patient's medical history, particularly if the patient has an extensive or complex medical history. Furthermore, it may be difficult for a physician to objectively interpret the relevance of findings for each diagnosis. It is difficult to make cost-effective, evidence-based decisions quickly, especially if the patient has a complex medical history or cannot easily obtain information about the cost of different potential trials. Furthermore, physicians often do not have time to record high quality records about the diagnostic procedures that occur, especially in busy clinical practice or hospital situations.
In providing care to patients, doctors and insurance companies strive to find a balance between high quality healthcare (healthcare) and economic use of resources. Providers and payers often have inconsistent care opinions for patients because doctors do not know the market, cost and availability of resources, while payers lack the experience of doctors and detailed information introduced by patients. Communication is a slow and complex process that typically requires a doctor to request authorization from the patient's insurance company for testing. Such a system creates an antagonistic relationship between the provider and the payer, while completely excluding the patient from discussion.
It is believed that no single technique adequately addresses all of the above-mentioned problems. Decision models (using bayesian theorem) are used in clinical medicine, but in practice they only serve as objective mental frames (mental frames). With objective data, the decision to order a trial for a patient can be supported by the sensitivity and specificity of the trial as long as the patient belongs to the population studied in the clinical trial. Health insurance companies have an arbitration process for authorized reimbursements. They determine by their cost whether the study ordered by the physician is reasonable. The decision is based on static rules or guidelines created by the committee.
The coding vocabulary is used to store, retrieve, study, and share patient data (i.e., HL 7/FFIR, ICD, UMLS, SNOMED, and many others). Some databases have used these vocabularies to describe relationships between symptoms and disease (disease databases) that provide motivation for online classification (triage) and symptom screening. Symcat and Isabel Healthcare use probabilistic models to determine the questions to ask next, but do not include key components of clinical decision making (physical examination results, laboratory values, imaging reports, etc.), making these tools useless outside of patient education.
Clinical Decision Support (CDS) systems are a large class of simple tools available to physicians, often integrated with EMRs. Some of these tools use information in patient medical records. Some examples include:
cancer screening reminders: the physician has a list of patients that should be screened based on age and gender on the dashboard.
Alert of possible drug interactions: for example, a reminder may appear when a doctor orders a quinolone for a patient taking warfarin.
Clinical pathway: the asthma management guidelines appear in charts of patients with a history of asthma.
CDS tools are typically implemented as point fixes for specific metrics, such as compliance rate or number of near miss events. Thus, they look like a regulatory task, as they are not integrated with the physician's workflow/diagnostic process. While CDS tools can improve metrics, their effectiveness is limited because they simply enforce rules based on static evidence.
Medication reformulation (medication reformulation) is a process used to create and maintain an accurate list of medications by comparing the medications that patients report taking with medications that physicians have ordered. Drug reformulation is integrated in most Electronic Medical Records (EMRs). This technique is drug limited, not predictive, and not integrated with diagnostic procedures.
File assistance is available in the form of software, tools and personnel. The EMR uses macros to expand the text of frequently entered phrases or paragraphs. The form may also be inserted into a free text annotation or customized into a template. Canvas Medical has tools such as word-autocompletion (word-autocompletion) and keyword-to-ICD10 conversion (keyword-to-ICD 10 conversion). The file tool was criticized for persistent "comment bloating" (note bloat). These tools are intended to improve the quality and efficiency of the files, but hide the relevant data. Although efforts have been made to extract relevant findings from free text, the results have varied and are not widely used today.
Disclosure of Invention
A system and method are disclosed for pre-evaluating the medical effectiveness of a diagnostic test, new finding, or intervention (i.e., treatment) based on a set of known findings about a patient and presenting the results to a health care provider, health care payer (e.g., insurance company), and/or patient. The disclosure also relates to component aspects and combinations of the system.
In one embodiment, the system generates data for a computing device containing a software application used by a healthcare provider to help view a patient's medical history and enter new findings about the patient's condition or symptoms.
The system includes a validated probabilistic model that is learned through an aggregated electronic medical record and other sources of medical knowledge, such as medical journal articles or expert user input. The system also includes a medical knowledge-based reasoning engine (processing unit and associated programming) that uses known findings (i.e., medical history and new findings, if any) and models of patients to determine a set of most likely diseases. The engine also suggests identifying a set of one or more tests or a set of new findings (which are presented) that are most likely to be diseased, and generating a marker (indicia) (e.g., text, score, probability, or statistical data, etc.) indicative of the diagnostic validity of the one or more findings or tests, e.g., using bayesian inference.
The set of one or more trials or findings suggested by the engine and associated indicia may be sent to a computing device and presented to a user, such as a healthcare provider, patient, or payer. These results and indicia can be presented on a computing device to assist the healthcare provider in selecting additional tests or findings to pursue. Alternatively, the results may be presented on a payer interface, such as a computer or workstation used by the payer. The payer may make reimbursement (e.g., underwriting and/or authorization) decisions based on the indicia.
Drawings
FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system including features of the present disclosure.
Fig. 2 is a diagram of a healthcare provider facing an interface of an electronic device (workstation, tablet, smartphone, etc.) showing a display of current findings, as well as additional findings or tests suggested to the provider to orient the work towards diagnosis.
FIG. 3 is a pictorial view of a Diagnostics Model Explorer (Diagnostics Model Explorer) that provides a suggested visualization of additional findings or related tests produced by the inference engine of FIG. 1, a label in the form of a relevance score, and a suggested diagnosis with a probability score.
FIG. 4 is a pictorial view of the diagnostic model resource manager after the additional findings have been selected by the physician, showing a new ranking of suggested additional findings and a new ranking of suggested diagnoses.
Fig. 5 is an illustration of a healthcare provider facing an interface of an electronic device showing a list of currently known and relevant findings of a patient, a list of most likely disease and likelihood scores, and suggested new findings or trials with relevant indicia.
FIG. 6 shows the interface of FIG. 5 after the physician has selected one of the suggested new trials listed in FIG. 6; the display shows details of the proposed new trial and label in the form of incremental probability and cost data.
FIG. 7 illustrates an interface of a healthcare payment workstation showing a display of patient data, findings, and proposed trials including costs and incremental probabilities to assist in making reimbursement decisions. A similar display may be provided on a web-based interface for patients to assist them in making decisions.
FIG. 8 illustrates a display on an electronic device showing known findings, diagnoses, and proposed treatments for a patient and indicia for each proposed treatment, including such things as survival data, cost data, side effects, etc., to assist providers and patients in making treatment decisions; this information may also be displayed on the payer's workstation to assist in making reimbursement and underwriting decisions.
FIG. 9 is an illustration of an example of how the inference engine of FIG. 1 works.
FIG. 10 is an illustration of an example of how the inference engine of FIG. 1 prioritizes findings that identify two different diagnoses.
Fig. 11 is an illustration of how the inference engine interprets disease severity and prioritizes the discovery of categorizing or excluding severe and urgent diseases over the discovery for non-urgent diseases.
FIG. 12 is a graphical illustration of how the inference engine considers the prevalence of a disease to rank or score potential diagnoses; it seeks to identify the findings of more common diseases than the very rare ones.
FIG. 13 is a graphical representation of how an inference engine determines the likelihood of a disease from multiple findings.
Detailed Description
Fig. 1 relates to a system 10 for assessing the diagnostic effectiveness of one or more tests or additional findings from a set of known findings about a patient. In the illustrated embodiment, the system is part of or embedded in a larger clinical decision system that includes devices and software components that assist a healthcare provider in obtaining diagnosis and treatment selections for a patient.
The system generates data for a computing device 12 (which may take the form of a tablet, smartphone, or desktop computer or workstation) containing a software application that is used by a healthcare provider to view a patient's medical history and enter findings regarding the patient's condition or symptoms. This device 12 and application will be described in more detail in fig. 2-8 and the discussion that follows.
The system 14, which may be configured as a computer or computer complex with auxiliary memory, stores a validated probabilistic health model 16 and a database 18 of medical knowledge known from aggregated electronic medical records or other medical knowledge sources. The aggregated electronic medical records may come from one or more institutions, or from electronic medical records that are fed back into the system by means of a data stream indicated by arrow 20. In the case where the knowledge base is based on aggregated health records, the data is de-identified by the patient (de-identified) in order to comply with all the requirements of the disclosure and use of a limited data set under which HIPAA was performed. Ethical review and institutional review committee exemptions were obtained from each institution as necessary. The patient data is not linked to any Google user data. In addition, the aggregated electronic health records are stored in a sandbox (sandboxing) infrastructure, which maintains each EHR data set separate from each other according to regulations, data permissions, and/or data usage protocols. The data in each sandbox is encrypted; all data access is controlled, recorded and audited at the personal level.
The validated probabilistic health model and medical knowledge base includes a search and query Application Programming Interface (API) 22, as will be explained below.
The system 10 also includes a medical knowledge-based reasoning engine 24 (processor and associated programming) that operates on the patient's medical history and findings (provided directly by the device or from a medical records database 26) and the validated probabilistic health model 16. The engine is programmed to perform several tasks, including: the method includes (1) determining a set of most likely diseases for the patient, (2) suggesting identification of one or more trials or sets of additional findings of the set of most likely diseases, and (3) generating indicia, such as statistics, text, or otherwise, indicative of the validity or relevance of the one or more trials or additional findings. These aspects will be described in more detail below. Data reflecting the results of these tasks is sent from the engine to the electronic device 12 to help the healthcare provider more efficiently manage and plan the care of the patient.
For example, the electronic device 12 includes an interface 40 for presenting information to a healthcare provider regarding at least one of: a set of (i) most likely diseases of the patient, (ii) a set of one or more trials or additional findings identifying the set of most likely diseases, (iii) indicia indicative of the validity or relevance of the one or more trials or additional findings, or (iv) a visualization of the recommendations made by the inference engine. In one embodiment, some or all of the above is displayed on an interface, for example, in a series of screen displays with appropriate controls or tools for switching between the various features of the display. Examples will be described below.
In one embodiment, there is a computer workstation 30 residing on a payer network (not shown), the computer workstation 30 including an application that receives data from the engine regarding proposed additional findings or trials and indicia (e.g., cost and relevance scores). The application is configured to facilitate reimbursement or authorization decisions regarding one or more trials. For example, an employee of the payer located at the workstation views the proposed additional trial(s) and associated indicia and queries cost data residing on the payer network, included in the indicia, or obtained from database 32, and makes reimbursement or underwriting (coverage) decisions regarding the proposed additional trial(s).
In addition, the system also supports a web-based patient interface 50 that provides patients with diagnostic validity information that they can access from their own electronic device (such as a smartphone or PC). As with the provider device 12, the interface provides for the display of at least one of: a set of (i) a patient's most likely diseases and (ii) one or more tests or additional findings identifying the set of most likely diseases, (iii) indicia indicative of the validity or relevance of the one or more tests, or (iv) a visualization of the recommendations made by the inference engine. These features allow the patient to make informed decisions about proposed trials that the provider may recommend.
As noted above, in order for the inference engine to perform its tasks, including determining a set of most probable illnesses for the patient, suggesting one or more trials or sets of additional findings identifying the set of most probable illnesses, and generating indicia (such as statistics, text, or otherwise) indicative of the validity or relevance of the one or more trials or additional findings, it uses the knowledge base 18 and the validated probabilistic health model 16. The knowledge base 18 includes validated (i.e., proven or established) medical knowledge in the form of data indicative of a relationship between medical findings (i.e., facts about a patient's condition, such as test results, symptoms, etc.) and diagnoses. Medical knowledge may be stored in a data structure format that preserves these relationships as indicated in block 100. Specifically, the discovery or treatment has one or more attributes 104. For example, a finding attribute such as "abdominal pain" may have an attribute where "cost" is zero, as the finding may be made through interviews of patients without the need for expensive experimentation. Findings such as "loss of bone mineral density" may have an attribute of $ 2000, since to obtain such findings a DEXA (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry) scan is required, which has an average cost of $ 2000, for example.
The medical knowledge includes a validity relationship between the findings 102 and the diagnoses 108 (106). For example, the finding of abdominal pain has a sensitivity of 0.7 and a specificity of 0.6 for a diagnosis towards "gastroenteritis". The diagnosis 108 has an attribute 110 that can be, for example, severity, frequency (i.e., common or rare for a disease in a given population), or relationship to other diseases. For example, "gastroenteritis" is diagnosed with severity =2 on a scale of 1-10.
The system of fig. 1 is preferably configured to augment or augment the knowledge base 18 over time as more and more patients are processed by the system of fig. 1. In this regard, there is a computer 120 that functions as an interpreter (interpreter) that views the original information and converts it into a format useful to the knowledge base. The interpreter generates useful data and updates that can be applied to the knowledge base 18. For example, the interpreter accesses a file source 112, such as a scientific paper, journal, clinical guideline, center of disease announcement, etc., and formats validated knowledge information contained therein into a format consistent with the above-described format 100, and provides additional medical knowledge to the knowledge base 18. In particular, the interpreter 120 constructs relationships between medical findings and diagnoses, effectiveness scores for the relationships, and attributes of the findings and diagnoses. This can be done manually (by expert review to identified patient health records, medical journals, etc.) or using machine learning models. Further, as indicated by expert user input 124, qualified, trained medical personnel may be provided with a simple tool to build relationships between findings and diagnoses, and assign attributes to the findings and diagnoses, and such data formatted by the interpreter 120 and supplied to the knowledge base 18. In addition, application data (e.g., medical records 26 and payment data 32) can be provided to the interpreter 120 and added to the knowledge base, for example, as attributes of findings or diagnoses or new relationships and attributes of findings and diagnoses. In essence, the data flow through the system indicated by arrow 20 improves the performance of the knowledge base 18 and the engine 24 over time in recommending additional findings, additional tests, suggested diagnoses, and generating useful and accurate indicia with the additional tests or findings proposed.
With the above description in mind, please note FIG. 2, which is an illustration of a provider interface 40 of the electronic device 12 (e.g., tablet computer) of FIG. 1. The interface 40 is designed to assist the physician through the diagnostic procedure and to record the procedure as it occurs and to provide a tool for assessing the medical effectiveness of the proposed additional findings or tests. Interface 40 allows the physician to view the patient's medical history and enter new findings with the assistance provided by medical knowledge base 18 and reasoning engine 24.
The interface 40 has areas for displaying three types of information about the patient that the physician may collect: 1) known findings, shown in region 200, 2) new findings presented in region 202, including new tests 204 presented, and 3) differential diagnosis, not shown in FIG. 2, but available through appropriate menu selection and shown in FIGS. 3, 4, 5, and 6. In the known findings portion 200, the system suggests relevant facts that the physician confirmed or denied with a tap based on the patient's medical history. In the new findings section 202, the system suggests unknown findings, and may be confirmed or denied by the physician (by asking, checking, or placing an order (and obtaining the results)). In the differential diagnosis section, the system shows differential diagnoses with a given known finding and new findings, sorted by probability. See fig. 3, 4, 5 and 6.
The differential diagnosis is refreshed after confirming or denying the findings in the regions 200 or 202. The recommendation may vary depending on the probability of differential diagnosis. The physician may continue to confirm/deny the findings or manually add new findings to more closely define the diagnosis.
For example, a doctor sees a patient with the complaint "breast lump". He will see relevant findings 202 that have been previously recorded, such as "family history of breast cancer". The doctor can confirm this finding with a tap and record it. This will increase the likelihood of breast cancer and thus rank it higher in differential diagnosis. In the new discovery section 202, the physician sees suggested facts to confirm or reject: repeated attacks and immobility. He asks the patient whether her mass has had recurrent attacks, which she denies. He then performed a physical examination and found that the tumor was immobile. These two findings were recorded with a tap, which increased the likelihood of breast cancer, thus placing it in the highest position in the differential diagnosis section. Next, the system suggests the use of "diagnostic mammograms" in a newly discovered section (region 204 in FIG. 2) dedicated to the proposed new test. Tapping it to place a order.
Fig. 3 shows one example of how interface 40 of device 12 may display the proposed diagnosis. In one embodiment, the device includes a tool or icon on the display of FIG. 1 that, when activated, displays to the healthcare provider information that we refer to as the "diagnostic model resource manager". The diagnostic model resource manager visualizes the suggestions made by the inference engine, including proposed new findings and suggested diagnoses. The diagnostic model resource manager shows the known findings in the leftmost column 302, the suggestions for the new findings in the second column 304, the relevance scores (i.e., "labels") of the proposed new findings in the third column 306, and the differential diagnoses in the fourth column. The fifth column shows the likelihood score (odds) that the proposed diagnosis in column 308 is correct.
Below the textual and numerical data at the top of the display is a tree 312 showing the sequence of related findings or symptoms and probability data linking the sequence to a diagnosis (the lowest level of the tree). In this case, the most cost effective finding is pharyngitis, listed at the top of the tree. However, the doctor does not need to obtain this finding to do so. For example, the physician may choose "dysuria" (first branch, right), and it becomes a "known finding".
As indicated previously, the diagnostic model resource manager is updated when a new finding is made, such as the new finding of "dysuria" in this example. Referring to fig. 4, "difficulty urinating" is now listed in the first column 302 as a new finding that is known. The differential diagnosis is refreshed, placing the urinary tract infection at the top of column 308 of the proposed diagnosis. The decision tree is also recalculated, taking "bellyache" as the next best finding to be obtained, as indicated at the top of column 304, since it has the highest correlation score as indicated in the third column 306. Likewise, diagnostic tree 312 is updated.
Fig. 5 shows another arrangement of display of the interface 40 of an electronic device, where the device includes in one screen a display of known findings 500, a display of most likely diagnoses 502, likelihood data 504 for those diagnoses, and a display of suggested new findings or trials in a column 506 and associated indicia 508 (such as, for example, relevance scores, costs, or other attributes of findings) for each proposed additional trial or finding. In FIG. 5, the provider may click on the "suggested new findings or trials" icon 510 and the display of FIG. 6 appears. In this case, two new trials-CT scan and ultrasound examination-are proposed. For each new trial, the label includes "delta probability" and cost. The confidence with which the incremental probability reflects the accuracy of the diagnosis increases depending on the results of the particular assay. Of course, the design details of the user interface of device 12 are not particularly important, and examples of the present disclosure are provided for purposes of illustration and not limitation.
Consider the following example: a patient may have a set of medical findings associated with a complaint (i.e., abdominal pain). Based on the medical findings, inference engine 24 determines the set of most likely diseases (appendicitis and gallbladder disease) with the aid of probabilistic model 16 and a knowledge base and infers a set of two trials identifying the set of most likely diseases: 1) Abdominal CT scan and 2) abdominal ultrasound examination. The tags are also generated by the engine: based on the prevalence of both diseases and known medical findings, the probability of a patient suffering from gallbladder disease is 60% and appendicitis 40%. Such information is shown in areas 502 and 504 of fig. 5. CT scanning of inflamed gallbladder was shown to increase the probability of a correct diagnosis of gallbladder disease to 90% and decrease the probability of appendicitis to 10%, increasing the incremental probability by 80%. Abdominal ultrasound of an inflamed gallbladder was shown to have the same incremental probability. The cost comparison indicates that CT scans are 10 times more expensive than abdominal ultrasound, but both tests have the same incremental probability, i.e., the same diagnostic effect in this particular case. This information is displayed on the device 12 as shown in fig. 6. Thus, the health care provider can continue with the abdominal ultrasound examination because it has the same medical effectiveness as a CT scan, but at a much lower cost.
Fig. 7 shows an example of a payer interface on the computer terminal 30 of fig. 1. The payer interface includes patient data, findings and proposed tests (identification code, cost and incremental probability). In this case the payer looking at the cost and incremental probability may not authorize the doctor's CT scan order, but the abdominal ultrasound because they all have the same effectiveness, but the cost of abdominal ultrasound is only 1/10 of the CT scan.
FIG. 8 is an illustration of a web interface 50 for a patient. The patient logs into the medical record system of the hospital or provider they are using and navigates to a page having an interface 50 that includes a display of relevant aspects of their medical record, including findings, diagnoses, and additional tests or treatments proposed. Each proposed additional trial or treatment is associated with a marker (such as cost, incremental probability, survivability data, relevance, side effects, risk, etc.).
As indicated above, the inference engine 24 utilizes the stored knowledge base 18 and the validated probabilistic model 16 to make recommendations for diagnosis and additional findings. The data in the knowledge base 18 can be manually accumulated (e.g., from aggregated electronic medical records, medical literature, textbooks, expert user input, etc.) or collected from a stream of information by a system as described above. The system includes an interpreter 120 to augment the knowledge base with information extraction from medical text, records, or user input.
The probabilistic model 14 uses two medical concepts: diagnosis and discovery. These concepts have attributes that are useful for ranking the relevance of the concepts, such as severity, notifier, and method. For example, findings using expensive methods may be ranked lower than findings using less expensive methods. With the data format indicated by block 100 in FIG. 1, i.e., discovering links to attributes, diagnosing links to attributes, and providing validity attributes (sensitivity, specificity) between a discovery or set of discoveries and a diagnosis, the model API 22 (FIG. 1) supports queries such as: "find all concepts having a validity relationship with concept a", "find all attributes of concept B", and so on.
There is a relationship between these concepts, such as between diagnoses, between findings, as indicated in block 100 of fig. 1. The diagnosis-finding relationship has two values, sensitivity (true positive rate) and specificity (true negative rate), which are modeled after the diagnostic test. From this we can derive two synthetic relationships, one for positive findings and one for negative findings.
Original relationship
Diagnosis-finding: sensitivity, specificity (specificity)
Become into
Diagnosis-positive finding: LR + or sensitivity/(1-specificity)
Diagnosis-negative findings: LR-or (1-sensitivity)/specificity
(where LR is the likelihood ratio).
With this knowledge representation, we can guide the user towards differential diagnosis. Unlike traditional decision tree-based instructions, our method does not require any specific input order, only a set of known findings. Finally, the "known findings" input can be extended to include any and all content that we may know about the patient, such as f (patient).
f (known findings) = potential diagnosis
Given a set of known findings, the diagnoses are ranked based on their posterior (posttest) probability/probability. Likelihood ratios may be derived from the conceptual relationships and used to calculate posterior probabilities accordingly.
Posterior probability = likelihood ratio before probability
This is derived from bayes' theorem, which states:
p(D|F)＝p(F|D)/p(F)*p(D)
using bayesian inference, we can update the diagnosis probability when findings are added; the posterior probability becomes the anterior probability of the next input. Thus, given a set of independent, equally popular findings F1.. Fx (i.e., p (F) = 1), the posterior probability of diagnosis D is:
p(D|F1…Fx)＝p(F1|D)p(F2|D)...p(Fx|D)p(D).
g (known findings) = related findings
Referring again to FIG. 1, the engine 24 basically operates as follows. The engine queries the model 16 and applies algorithms to draw inferences from the model 16. For example, given a set of known findings of a patient, the engine attempts to answer the question: "which trials should be performed next? ". To answer this question, the engine may apply the following algorithm:
1. a model of disease concepts related to known findings is queried.
2. Disease concepts are scored by calculating a pre-test probability in view of disease prevalence and known test results.
3. The correlation test is queried from the model.
4. The trial is scored based on factors such as posterior probability (effectiveness), cost, urgency, frequency/rareness, and/or other factors. The data regarding the results of the inference engine is then presented to the healthcare provider's electronic device 12, the interface 50 for the patient, and/or the payer computer terminal 30.
Fig. 9-13 will illustrate other examples of how model 16 and inference engine 24 work to generate diagnostics and findings/tests.
In fig. 9 is an example of how the decision engine 24 works. The engine must conclude the most cost effective test between the two previous (top) diagnoses (appendicitis and diverticulitis). In this implementation, cost is traded off against effectiveness. The tests for each finding are first classified by cost and then by likelihood ratio. RLQ (right lower abdomen) can be determined by interview, which is inexpensive compared to laboratory tests needed to determine leukocytosis. Thus, the engine concluded that RLQ pain was the best finding obtained.
Fig. 10 illustrates that the engine 24 will prioritize the findings identifying the disease. For example, it is assumed that CT scans and Ultrasound (US) are as expensive. CT scans showing appendicitis strongly suggest appendicitis (LR 9.0) and strongly suggest diverticulitis (LR-8.0). Ultrasound examination of abscesses with LR 3.0 for appendicitis and 3.5 for diverticulitis does not identify these diseases. Therefore, the engine may recommend CT scans to be better than US.
Fig. 11 illustrates that the engine 24 explains the severity of the disease and prioritizes the inclusion or exclusion of findings of severe and urgent diseases rather than disease findings for non-urgent situations. In this example, myocardial infarction is more threatening than costal chondritis, so the engine would recommend EKG better than touching the sternum for tenderness.
Fig. 12 illustrates that the engine 24 considers the prevalence of the disease in discrimination (from the validated probabilistic model 16). While it considers all diseases, it seeks to identify findings of more common diseases. For example, creutzfeldt Jakob disease (Creutzfeldt Jakob) is very rare compared to generalized anxiety and essential tremor, and therefore findings or tests that identify more common diseases would be prioritized.
Figure 13 illustrates that individual LR disease was multiplied for each disease at the time of the findings collected. If RLQ pain is the only known finding, then the likelihood ratio for appendicitis is the prevalence of appendicitis multiplied by 1.5. An additional finding of rebound tenderness would be to multiply 1.5 by 3.0. Similarly, the appendix stone (apendicolith) multiplies 4.5 by 8.0. These three findings make patients 36 times more likely than the general population to have appendicitis.
Although the illustrated embodiment illustrates a simple bayesian approach to probabilistic models, other types of models known in the literature, such as the patent literature described in the background section of this document, can be used.
In view of the foregoing, there has been disclosed a method for assessing the medical effectiveness of one or more diagnostic tests based on a set of known findings about a patient, comprising:
a) Providing a computing device 12 (FIG. 1) containing a software application for use by a healthcare provider in reviewing a patient's medical history and entering findings regarding the patient's condition or symptoms (see FIG. 2);
b) Providing a validated probabilistic health model 16 based on the aggregated electronic medical records or other medical knowledge sources; and
c) Using a computer processor 24 configured as a medical knowledge-based reasoning engine, which operates on the patient's medical history and findings and the validated probabilistic health model:
(1) A set of most likely diseases of the patient is determined,
(2) A set of one or more tests or additional findings that suggest a set of most likely diseases to be identified, an
(3) Generating a marker indicative of the validity or relevance of the set of one or more assays or additional findings. (see FIGS. 2-8)
Further, the method may comprise the steps of: the indicia is sent from the engine to an application residing on the healthcare payer network, the application configured to facilitate reimbursement or authorization decisions regarding one or more tests, such as described above in the context of fig. 1 and 7.
The method may further comprise the steps of: the indicia is sent from the engine 24 to a software application residing on the computing device 12 or 30.
In one embodiment, computing device 12 further comprises an interface (fig. 2), and wherein the method further comprises the step of presenting information on the interface regarding at least one of: a set of (i) the most probable disease for the patient and (ii) one or more trials identifying the set of most probable disease, (iii) indicia indicative of the validity of the one or more trials, or (iv) a visualization of the recommendations made by the inference engine, see fig. 2-8 and the description above.
As explained above, the method may further comprise the steps of: sending to the web-based patient interface 50, providing the patient with the medical effectiveness information data for generating a display of at least one of: a set of (i) a patient's most likely diseases and (ii) one or more trials identifying the set of most likely diseases, (iii) indicia indicative of the validity or relevance of one or more trials, or (iv) a visualization of recommendations made by an inference engine, such as that shown in fig. 8.
In another aspect, we have described a system in the form of: a) A validated probabilistic health model 14 comprising a database 18 of medical knowledge known from aggregated electronic medical records or other medical knowledge sources; and b) a medical knowledge-based reasoning engine 24 that operates on the patient's medical history and findings and the validated probabilistic health model to: (1) determining a set of most likely diseases for the patient, (2) suggesting identification of one or more trials of the set of most likely diseases or a set of additional findings, and (3) generating a marker indicative of the validity or relevance of the one or more trials or additional findings; and c) an interpreter 120 that converts raw medical information from at least one of file sources, medical records, payment data, or expert input from a health care provider into a format useful for a medical knowledge database and supplies the information in that format to the database 18. The format in the illustrated embodiment is in the format of the relationship between medical findings and diagnoses, the validity scores of the relationship, and the attributes of the findings and diagnoses. As an example, the discovered attributes may include a cost attribute. The diagnostic attributes may include a severity attribute, a frequency attribute, or one or more treatment attributes.
In another aspect, a method has been described for assisting in making reimbursement or underwriting decisions for medical care of patients having a diagnosis and a medical history including findings. The method comprises the following steps: a) Providing a validated probabilistic health model 14 comprising a database 18 of medical knowledge known from aggregated electronic medical records or other medical knowledge sources; b) A medical knowledge-based reasoning engine 24 is provided that operates on the patient's medical history and findings and the validated probabilistic health model to: (1) Determining a set of potential treatments for the patient, and (2) generating markers indicative of the effectiveness or relevance of the potential treatments in the set; c) Providing an interpreter 120 that converts raw medical information from at least one of a file source, medical history, payment data, or input from a healthcare provider into a format useful to a medical knowledge database and supplies the information to the database in that format; and d) generating data for the payer-oriented interface (see FIGS. 1, 30; fig. 7) for presenting a set of potential treatments for the patient and indicia to assist a user of the payer-oriented interface in making reimbursement or underwriting decisions.
Claims (21)
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
providing an interactive relationship tree through a graphical user interface, wherein the relationship tree represents one or more diagnosis-discovery relationship sequences between findings and diagnoses of a medical condition, with respective likelihood scores indicating a correlation of the medical condition with a patient;
detecting a selection of a node in the interactive relationship tree, wherein the selection of the node indicates a selection by a healthcare provider of additional findings indicative of one or more most likely medical conditions of the patient;
updating a set of known findings by adding selected additional findings to the set of known findings; and
displaying, by the graphical user interface, the updated interactive relationship tree based on the updated set of known findings.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
retrieving a stored validated probabilistic health model comprising a medical knowledge database known from an aggregated electronic medical record or other medical knowledge source; and is
Wherein the set of known findings is determined based on the validated probabilistic health model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
the set of known findings is determined by applying a machine learning model based on medical knowledge that operates on medical histories and findings associated with a patient.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising:
applying the machine learning model to generate one or more additional diagnosis-discovery relationships between the additional findings and associated additional diagnoses, and
wherein the updated interactive relationship tree is based on the one or more additional diagnostic-discovery relationships.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing, to the healthcare provider, a set of one or more diagnostic tests identifying the one or more most likely medical conditions and indicia indicating the validity or relevance of the one or more diagnostic tests through the graphical user interface.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: an application residing on a healthcare payer network, the application receiving the indicia from a machine learning model, the application configured to facilitate reimbursement or authorization decisions regarding the one or more diagnostic tests.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the indicia comprises at least one of an incremental probability, a likelihood ratio, or a cost associated with the set of one or more diagnostic tests.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising:
receiving, by the graphical user interface, a selection of a diagnostic test of the one or more diagnostic tests; and
updating a marker indicative of diagnostic validity or relevance of the one or more diagnostic tests based on the selection.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
updating one or more of the set of known findings, or one or more of the one or more diagnostic-finding relationship sequences, based on a confirmation or denial of a finding from the set of known findings by the healthcare provider.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
storing raw medical information from at least one of a file source, a medical record, payment data, or input from a healthcare provider in a medical database that has been configured to retain one or more relationships between one or more of: diagnostic, diagnostic attribute, finding attribute, treatment or therapeutic attribute.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the storing comprises storing the validity score of the relationship.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the discovery attribute comprises a cost attribute, and wherein the diagnostic attribute comprises a severity attribute.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more diagnostic-discovery relationship sequences are based on a positive likelihood ratio and a negative likelihood ratio, wherein each likelihood ratio is based on (i) a sensitivity indicating a true positive rate of diagnosis, and (ii) a specificity indicating a true negative rate of diagnosis, and the operations further comprise:
determining the positive likelihood ratio as a ratio of the sensitivity and a relative specificity, wherein the relative specificity is a difference of 1 from the specificity; and
determining the negative likelihood ratio as a ratio of a relative sensitivity and the specificity, wherein the relative sensitivity is a difference of 1 and the sensitivity.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising:
ranking the one or more diagnostic tests based on the respective costs and the respective likelihood ratios.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
receiving, by the interactive relationship tree, a denial of a second discovery from the set of additional discoveries;
updating the additional discovery set by removing the second discovery from the additional discovery set based on the denial of the second discovery.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing, by a diagnostic model resource manager and through an interactive graphical user interface, the set of known findings, wherein the diagnostic model resource manager is a tabular representation of the set of known findings, the set of additional findings having associated relevance scores, and associated diagnoses having associated likelihood ratios.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
providing, via the graphical user interface, a display including one or more suggested new diagnostic tests and associated likelihood ratios;
receiving a selection of a new diagnostic test of the one or more suggested new diagnostic tests from the health care provider; and
providing, via the graphical user interface, an incremental probability indicating that the results of the selected new diagnostic test increase confidence in the diagnostic accuracy of the patient.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising:
providing, via the graphical user interface, a cost associated with the selected new diagnostic test.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising:
providing, via the graphical user interface, new medical findings related to the patient;
receiving a confirmation or denial of the new medical discovery from the healthcare provider; and
updating the one or more suggested new diagnostic tests based on the confirmation or denial of the new medical finding.
20. A server for facilitating medical diagnosis of a patient, comprising:
one or more processors; and
a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the server to perform operations comprising:
providing an interactive relationship tree through a graphical user interface, wherein the relationship tree represents one or more diagnosis-discovery relationship sequences between findings and diagnoses of a medical condition, with respective likelihood scores indicating a correlation of the medical condition with a patient;
detecting a selection of a node in the interactive relationship tree, wherein the selection of the node indicates a selection by a healthcare provider of additional findings indicative of one or more most likely medical conditions of the patient;
updating a set of known findings by adding selected additional findings to the set of known findings; and
displaying, by the graphical user interface, the updated interactive relationship tree based on the updated set of known findings.
21. An article of manufacture comprising one or more computer-readable media having computer-readable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising:
providing, by a graphical user interface of the computing device, an interactive relationship tree, wherein the relationship tree represents one or more diagnosis-discovery relationship sequences between findings and diagnoses of a medical condition, with respective likelihood scores indicating a relevance of the medical condition to a patient;
detecting a selection of a node in the interactive relationship tree, wherein the selection of the node indicates a selection by a healthcare provider of additional findings indicative of one or more most likely medical conditions of the patient;
updating a set of known findings by adding selected additional findings to the set of known findings; and
displaying, by the graphical user interface, the updated interactive relationship tree based on the updated set of known findings.
Applications Claiming Priority (3)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US15/692,550 | 2017-08-31 | ||
US15/692,550 US11488712B2 (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2017-08-31 | Diagnostic effectiveness tool |
CN201810965569.XA CN109427420B (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2018-08-23 | Diagnostic validation tool |
Related Parent Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201810965569.XA Division CN109427420B (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2018-08-23 | Diagnostic validation tool |
Publications (1)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN115565670A true CN115565670A (en) | 2023-01-03 |
Family
ID=65436198
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201810965569.XA Active CN109427420B (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2018-08-23 | Diagnostic validation tool |
CN202211258695.4A Pending CN115565670A (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2018-08-23 | Method for medical diagnosis |
Family Applications Before (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201810965569.XA Active CN109427420B (en) | 2017-08-31 | 2018-08-23 | Diagnostic validation tool |
Country Status (2)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US11488712B2 (en) |
CN (2) | CN109427420B (en) |
Families Citing this family (7)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
IL263465A (en) * | 2018-12-04 | 2020-06-30 | Mae Wein Leila | Robotic emergency room having human collaborative modes |
JP2020126284A (en) * | 2019-02-01 | 2020-08-20 | コニカミノルタ株式会社 | Information processing apparatus, diagnosis support system, and program |
JP7471094B2 (en) * | 2020-01-30 | 2024-04-19 | キヤノンメディカルシステムズ株式会社 | Learning support device and method |
EP3910645A1 (en) * | 2020-05-13 | 2021-11-17 | Siemens Healthcare GmbH | Image retrieval |
CN112735542B (en) * | 2021-01-18 | 2023-08-22 | 北京大学 | Data processing method and system based on clinical test data |
CN113990518B (en) * | 2021-10-25 | 2023-05-16 | 北京百度网讯科技有限公司 | Information generation method, device, electronic equipment and storage medium |
US20230307133A1 (en) * | 2022-03-24 | 2023-09-28 | Quai.MD, Ltd. | Method and system for generating a patient-specific clinical meta-pathway using machine learning |
Family Cites Families (18)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US6678669B2 (en) | 1996-02-09 | 2004-01-13 | Adeza Biomedical Corporation | Method for selecting medical and biochemical diagnostic tests using neural network-related applications |
US6988088B1 (en) | 2000-10-17 | 2006-01-17 | Recare, Inc. | Systems and methods for adaptive medical decision support |
US6450956B1 (en) | 2000-11-06 | 2002-09-17 | Siemens Corporate Research, Inc. | System and method for treatment and outcome measurement analysis |
US7593913B2 (en) | 2006-01-11 | 2009-09-22 | Siemens Medical Solutions Usa, Inc. | Systems and method for integrative medical decision support |
JP5038671B2 (en) | 2006-09-25 | 2012-10-03 | 株式会社東芝 | Inspection item selection device, inspection item selection method, and inspection item selection program |
CN101903884B (en) | 2007-12-18 | 2017-05-17 | 皇家飞利浦电子股份有限公司 | Integration of physiological models in medical decision support systems |
US20100174555A1 (en) * | 2009-01-05 | 2010-07-08 | Klaus Abraham-Fuchs | System for automatic clinical pathway optimization |
US8645165B2 (en) | 2010-06-03 | 2014-02-04 | General Electric Company | Systems and methods for value-based decision support |
US20120290310A1 (en) * | 2011-05-12 | 2012-11-15 | Onics Inc | Dynamic decision tree system for clinical information acquisition |
US20130268203A1 (en) * | 2012-04-09 | 2013-10-10 | Vincent Thekkethala Pyloth | System and method for disease diagnosis through iterative discovery of symptoms using matrix based correlation engine |
US10559377B2 (en) * | 2013-01-09 | 2020-02-11 | Biomed Concepts Inc. | Graphical user interface for identifying diagnostic and therapeutic options for medical conditions using electronic health records |
EP2775412A1 (en) | 2013-03-07 | 2014-09-10 | Medesso GmbH | Method of generating a medical suggestion as a support in medical decision making |
US20140358570A1 (en) * | 2013-06-04 | 2014-12-04 | Koninklijke Philips N.V. | Healthcare support system and method |
US10282512B2 (en) | 2013-07-09 | 2019-05-07 | Indiana University Research And Technology Corporation | Clinical decision-making artificial intelligence object oriented system and method |
JP2015207111A (en) * | 2014-04-18 | 2015-11-19 | ソニー株式会社 | Examination server, examination method, and examination system |
US20160004829A1 (en) * | 2014-07-03 | 2016-01-07 | Clinical Lab Consulting, Llp | Clinical laboratory decision support system |
ITMI20142149A1 (en) * | 2014-12-16 | 2016-06-16 | L I A Di Giuseppe Capasso | DEVICE FOR DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS IN MEDICINE ADAPTED TO DETERMINE THE OPTIMAL TEST SEQUENCE SUITABLE TO IDENTIFY A PATHOLOGY ACCORDING TO DIAGNOSTIC APPROPRIATENESS CRITERIA |
CN106778039A (en) | 2017-01-20 | 2017-05-31 | 深圳第医学健康管理有限公司 | Diagnosis and treatment accessory system and method |
-
2017
- 2017-08-31 US US15/692,550 patent/US11488712B2/en active Active
-
2018
- 2018-08-23 CN CN201810965569.XA patent/CN109427420B/en active Active
- 2018-08-23 CN CN202211258695.4A patent/CN115565670A/en active Pending
-
2022
- 2022-09-23 US US17/934,714 patent/US20230010216A1/en active Pending
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US11488712B2 (en) | 2022-11-01 |
US20190065688A1 (en) | 2019-02-28 |
US20230010216A1 (en) | 2023-01-12 |
CN109427420B (en) | 2022-10-14 |
CN109427420A (en) | 2019-03-05 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
US20200381087A1 (en) | Systems and methods of clinical trial evaluation | |
CN109427420B (en) | Diagnostic validation tool | |
US20180211726A1 (en) | Patient Communication Priority By Compliance Dates, Risk Scores, and Organizational Goals | |
US10332055B2 (en) | Score cards | |
US8856188B2 (en) | Electronic linkage of associated data within the electronic medical record | |
Halamka | Early experiences with big data at an academic medical center | |
US20100145720A1 (en) | Method of extracting real-time structured data and performing data analysis and decision support in medical reporting | |
KR20200003407A (en) | Systems and methods for predicting and summarizing medical events from electronic health records | |
US20180082030A1 (en) | Automatic Adjustment of Treatment Recommendations Based on Economic Status of Patients | |
US20180121606A1 (en) | Cognitive Medication Reconciliation | |
US20180211008A1 (en) | Assist Selection of Provider/Facility for Surgical Procedures Based on Frequency of Procedure, History of Complications, and Cost | |
US20150199488A1 (en) | Systems and Methods for Interpreting Medical Information | |
US20180121605A1 (en) | Cognitive Medication Reconciliation | |
Klappe et al. | Factors influencing problem list use in electronic health records—application of the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology | |
Ahmadi et al. | Radiology reporting system data exchange with the electronic health record system: a case study in Iran | |
US20210225498A1 (en) | Healthcare workflows that bridge healthcare venues | |
Noteboom et al. | What are the gaps in mobile patient portal? Mining users feedback using topic modeling | |
Dewaswala et al. | Natural language processing for identification of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients from cardiac magnetic resonance reports | |
AU2014249356A1 (en) | Systems and methods for interpreting medical information | |
Pichon et al. | Cognitive Function Characterization Using Electronic Health Records Notes | |
US11748361B1 (en) | Systems and methods for multi-dimensional ranking of experts | |
GM et al. | Healthcare Data Analytics Using Artificial Intelligence | |
Belmonte et al. | Healthcare information technology: A systematic mapping study | |
Alqahtani | A model of electronic health record systems adoption by primary healthcare physicians in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia | |
Haule et al. | The what, why, and how of health information systems: A systematic review |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination |