- 1 AUSTRALIA PATENTS ACT 1990 COMPLETE SPECIFICATION FOR A STANDARD PATENT ORIGINAL Name of Applicant/s: Google Inc. Actual Inventor/s: Andriy Bihun and Jason Goldman and Alex Khesin and Vinod Marur and Eduardo Morales and Jeff Reynar Address for Service is: SHELSTON IP 60 Margaret Street Telephone No: (02) 9777 1111 SYDNEY NSW 2000 Facsimile No. (02) 9241 4666 CCN: 3710000352 Attorney Code: SW Invention Title: Ranking blog documents Details of Original Application No. 2006290977 dated 13 Sep 2006 The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of performing it known to me/us: File: 57982AUP01 RANKING BLOG DOCUMENTS FIELD OF THE INVENTION 5 Implementations consistent with the principles of the invention relate generally to information retrieval and, more particularly, to providing a ranked set of blog documents in response to search queries. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The World Wide Web ("web") contains a vast amount of information. Locating a desired portion of the information, however, can be challenging. This problem is compounded because the amount of information on the 10 web and the number of new users inexperienced at web searching are growing rapidly. Search engines attempt to return hyperlinks to web pages in which a user is interested. Generally, search engines base their determination of the user's interest on search terms (called a search query) entered by the user. The goal of the search engine is to provide links to high quality, relevant results (e.g., web pages) to the user based on the search query. Typically, the search engine accomplishes this by matching the terms in the search query to a 15 corpus of pre-stored web pages. Web pages that contain the user's search terms are identified as search results and are returned to the user as links. Over the past few years, a new medium, called a blog, has appeared on the web. Blogs (short for web logs) are publications of personal thoughts that are typically updated frequently with new journal entries, called posts. The content and quality of blogs and their posts can vary greatly depending on the purpose of the authors of 20 the blogs. As blogging becomes more popular, the ability to provide quality blog search results becomes more important. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the disadvantages ofthe prior art, or to provide a useful alternative. 25 According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method comprising: receiving a search query by a blog search engine; retrieving a blog document in response to the search query; generating a first relevance score for the blog document, the first relevance score being based on a relevance of the blog document to the search query; 30 generating a second quality score for the blog document, the second quality score being independent of the search query and based on a plurality of indicators, wherein the plurality of indicators includes at least one of one or more positive indicators or one or more negative indicators, I a wherein the one or more positive indicators include one or more of a popularity of the blog document, an existence of a link to the blog document in one or more blogrolls associated with other blog documents, tagging of the blog document, a reference to the blog document in other documents, or a PageRank of the blog document, and wherein the one or more negative indicators include one or more of a frequency with which posts are added to 5 the blog document, a content of the blog document, a size of posts in the blog document, a link distribution associated with the blog document, a quantity of ads in the blog document, or a location of ads in the blog document; generating a third ranking score based on altering the first relevance score and the second quality score; and providing information regarding the blog document based on the third ranking score. According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method comprising: 10 receiving a search query by a blog search engine; retrieving a blog document in response to the search query; generating a first relevance score for the blog document, the first relevance score being based on a relevance of the blog document to the search query; generating a second quality score for the blog document, the second quality score being independent of the 15 search query and based on a plurality of indicators, wherein the plurality of indicators includes at least one of one or more positive indicators or one or more negative indicators, wherein the generating the second quality score includes: combining the plurality of indicators to determine the quality score; generating a third ranking score based on the first relevance score and the second quality score; and ?0 providing information regarding the blog document based on the third ranking score. According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a method comprising: receiving a search query by a blog search engine; retrieving a blog document in response to the search query; generating a first relevance score for the blog document, the first relevance score being based on a relevance of !5 the blog document to the search query; generating a second quality score for the blog document, the second quality score being independent of the search query; generating a third ranking score based on the first relevance score and the second quality score byadjusting the first relevance score by an amount that is based on the second quality score; and 30 providing information regarding the blog document based on the third ranking score. According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining a blog document; identifying at least one of positive indicators of a quality of the blog document or negative indicators of the quality of the blog document, where the quality of the blog document is independent of the received search query, 35 wherein the negative indicators include one or more of a frequency with which posts are added to the blog document, a size of posts in the blog document, a link distribution associated with the blog document, a quantity of ads in the blog document, or a location of ads in the blog document; 2 generating a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one of positive indicators or negative indicators; determining a relevancy of the blog document to a search query; generating a ranking score based on the determined relevancy ofthe blog document and the generated quality 5 score for the blog document; and providing information regarding the blog document based on the ranking score. According to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining a blog document; identifying at least one of positive indicators of a quality of the blog document or negative indicators of the 10 quality of the blog document, where the quality of the blog document is independent of the received search query, wherein the negative indicators include an indication of a mismatch between a content of the blog document and a content of a feed associated with the blog document; generating a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one of positive indicators or negative indicators; 15 determining a relevancy of the blog document to a search query; generating a ranking score based on the determined relevancy of the blog document and the generated quality score for the blog document; and providing information regarding the blog document based on the ranking score. According to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer-implemented method comprising: 20 obtaining a blog document; identifying at least one positive indicator ofa quality ofthe blog document and at least one negative indicatorof the quality of the blog document, where the quality of the blog document is independent of the received search query, wherein the at least one negative indicator includes an indication that the blog document includes a particular percentage of predetermined words or phrases, the particular percentage being greater than or equal to a predetermined 25 threshold; generating a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one positive indicator and the at least one negative indicator; determining a relevancy of the blog document to a search query; generating a ranking score based on the determined relevancy ofthe blog document and the generated quality 30 score for the blog document; and providing information regarding the blog document based on the ranking score. According to a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining a blog document; identifying at least one positive indicator of a quality of the blog document or negative indicators of the 35 quality of the blog document and at least one negative indicator of the quality of the blog document, where the quality of the blog document is independent of the received search query, 2a wherein the at least one negative indicator includes an indication that the blog document includes duplicate content; generating a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one positive indicator and the identified at least one negative indicator; 5 determining a relevancy of the blog document to a search query; generating a ranking score based on the determined relevancy ofthe blog document and the generated quality score for the blog document; and providing information regarding the blog document based on the ranking score. According to an eighth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method comprising: 10 receiving a search query at a blog search engine; generating ranking scores for a plurality of blog documents in response to the search query, the ranking scores being based on a relevance of the plurality of blog documents to the search query and a quality of the plurality of blog documents, where the quality of the blog documents is independent of the search query, 15 where the generating the ranking scores includes: generating relevance scores for the plurality of blog documents, and adjusting the relevance scores based on the quality of the plurality of blog documents; and providing information regarding the plurality of blog documents based on the generated ranking scores, wherein the plurality of indicators includes one or more positive indicators and one or more negative indicators. 20 In accordance with one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, a method may include receiving a search query at a blog search engine, retrieving a blog document in response to the search query, determining a first score for the blog document based on the relevance of the blog document to the search query, altering the first score based on a quality of the blog document, and providing information regarding the blog document based on the altered first score. Z5 In another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, a computer-implemented method includes obtaining a blog document, identifying at least one of the positive indicators of a quality of the blog document or negative indicators of the quality of the blog document, and determining a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one of positive indicators or negative indicators. In yet another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, a method may include 30 receiving a search query at a blog search engine; determining scores for a group of blog documents in response to the search query, the scores being based on a relevance of the group of blog documents to the search query and a quality of the group of blog documents; and providing information regarding the group of blog documents based on the determined scores. 2b In still another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, a method may include identifying at least one of the positive indicators of a quality of a blog document or negative indicators of the quality of the blog document, the identified at least one of positive indicators or negative indicators including an indicator specific to blog documents; determining a quality score for the blog document based on the identified at least one of 5 positive indicators or negative indicators; receiving a search query; determining a score for the blog document based on a relevance of the blog document to the search query; adjusting the score of the blog document based on the quality score; and providing information relating to the blog document based on the adjusted score. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or 10 exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to". BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate an implementation of the invention and, together with the description, explain the invention. In the drawings, Fig. I is an exemplary diagram illustrating a concept consistent with the principles of the invention; I 5 Fig. 2 is an exemplary diagram of a network in which systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention may be implemented; Fig. 3 is an exemplary diagram of a client or server entity in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention; Fig. 4 is a diagram of a portion of an exemplary computer-readable medium that may be used by the server 20 of Fig. 2; 2c Fig. 5 is an exemplary database that may be associated with the server of Fig. 2 in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention; Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an exemplary process for determining a quality score for a blog document in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention; 5 Fig. 7 is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting search results in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention; and Fig. 8 is a diagram of an exemplary set of documents that may be retrieved in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION 10 The following detailed description of implementations consistent with the principles of the invention refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also, the following detailed description does not limit the invention. OVERVIEW Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention improve the quality of blog results 15 provided in response to a search query. To improve the quality of blog results, a number of quality factors may be used to alter (either positively or negatively) a score of the blog results. Fig. I is an exemplary diagram illustrating a concept consistent with the principles of the invention. As illustrated in Fig. 1, two distinct sets of data are used to determine a score of a blog (or blog post) in response to a search query - the topical relevance of the blog (or blog post) to the terms in the search query and the quality of the 20 blog (or blog post), which is independent of the query terms. The quality of the blog (or blog post) may positively or negatively affect the score of the blog (or blog post). The phrase "blog document," as used hereinafter, is to be broadly interpreted to include a blog, a blog post, or both a blog and a blog post. It will be appreciated that the techniques described herein are equally applicable to blogs and blog posts. A "document," as the term is used herein, is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine 25 readable and machine-storable work product. A document may include, for example, an e-mail, a web site, a file, a combination of files, one or more files with embedded links to other files, a news group posting, a blog document, a web advertisement, etc. In the context of the Internet, a common document is a web page. Web pages often include textual information and may include embedded information (such as meta information, images, hyperlinks, etc.) and/or embedded instructions (such as Javascript, etc.). A "link," as the term is used herein, is to be broadly 3 interpreted to include any reference to/from a document from/to another document or another part of the same document. EXEMPLARY NETWORK CONFIGURATION Fig. 2 is an exemplary diagram of a network 200 in which systems and methods consistent with the 5 principles of the invention may be implemented. Network 200 may include multiple clients 2 10 connected to multiple servers 220-240 via a network 250. Two clients 210 and three servers 220-240 have been illustrated as connected to network 250 for simplicity. In practice, there may be more or fewer clients and servers. Also, in some instances, a client may perform a function of a server and a server may perform a function of a client. Clients 210 may include client entities. An entity may be defined as a device, such as a personal computer, 10 a wireless telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a lap top, or another type of computation or communication device, a thread or process running on one of these devices, and/or an object executable by one of these devices. Servers 220-240 may include server entities that gather, process, search, and/or maintain documents in a manner consistent with the principles of the invention. In an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, server 220 may include a search I 5 engine 225 usable by clients 210. In one implementation, search engine 225 may include a blog search engine that searches only blog documents. Server 220 may crawl a corpus of documents, index the documents, and store information associated with the documents in a repository of documents. Servers 230 and 240 may store or maintain documents that may be crawled or analyzed by server 220. While servers 220-240 are shown as separate entities, it may be possible for one or more of servers 220 20 240 to perform one or more of the functions of another one or more of servers 220-240. For example, it may be possible that two or more of servers 220-240 are implemented as a single server. It may also be possible for a single one of servers 220-240 to be implemented as two or more separate (and possibly distributed) devices. Network 250 may include a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a telephone network, such as the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), an intranet, the Internet, or a combination of networks. 25 Clients 210 and servers 220-240 may connect to network 250 via wired, wireless, and/or optical connections. EXEMPLARY CLIENT/SERVER ARCHITECTURE Fig. 3 is an exemplary diagram of a client or server entity (hereinafter called "client/server entity"), which may correspond to one or more of clients 210 and/or servers 220-240. The client/server entity may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a main memory 330, a read only memory (ROM) 340, a storage device 350, an input device 4 360, an output device 370, and a communication interface 380. Bus 310 may include a path that permits communication among the elements of the client/server entity. Processor 320 may include a processor, microprocessor, or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory 330 may include a random access memory (RAM) or another type of dynamic storage 5 device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor 320. ROM 340 may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor 320. Storage device 350 may include a magnetic and/or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive. Input device 360 may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to the client/server entity, such as a keyboard, a mouse, a pen, voice recognition and/or biometric mechanisms, etc. Output 10 device 370 may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator, including a display, a printer, a speaker, etc. Communication interface 380 may include any transceiver-like mechanism that enables the client/server entity to communicate with other devices and/or systems. For example, communication interface 380 may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network, such as network 250. As will be described in detail below, the client/server entity, consistent with the principles of the invention, I 5 may perform certain document processing-related operations. The client/server entity may perform these operations in response to processor 320 executing software instructions contained in a computer-readable medium, such as memory 330. A computer-readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device and/or carrier wave. The software instructions may be read into memory 330 from another computer-readable medium, such as 20 data storage device 350, or from another device via communication interface 380. The software instructions contained in memory 330 may cause processor 320 to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the invention. Thus, implementations consistent with the principles of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. 25 EXEMPLARY COMPUTER-READABLE MEDIUM Fig. 4 is a diagram of a portion of an exemplary computer-readable medium 400 that may be used by a server 220. In one implementation, computer-readable medium 400 may correspond to memory 330 of server 220. The portion of computer-readable medium 400 illustrated in Fig. 4 may include an operating system 410 and blog quality software 420. 5 Operating system 410 may include operating system software, such as the Windows, Unix, or Linux operating systems. Blog quality software 420 may include software that receives data relating to a blog document and determines, based on this data, a quality score for the blog document. As will be described in additional detail below, the data may include signals that measure the probability of the content of the blog document being of poor 5 quality, which would lead to the demotion or elimination of the blog document as a candidate result. The data may also include signals that measure the probability of the content of the blog document being ofhigh quality/popularity, which would lead to the promotion of the blog document as a candidate result. Fig. 5 is an exemplary database 500 that may be associated with server 220 in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention. Database 500 may be stored locally at server 220, for example, in 10 main memory 330 or storage device 350, or stored external to server 220 at, for example, a possibly remote location. As illustrated, database 500 may include the following exemplary fields: a document identification (ID) field 510 and a quality score field 520. It will be appreciated that database 500 may include other fields than those illustrated in Fig. 5. Document ID field 510 may store information identifying blog documents, which, as described above, can 15 be blogs or blog posts. The information may include a unique identifier. Quality score field 520 may store a quality score for each blog document identified in field 510. Database 500 may be accessed in response to a search query received by server 220. Server 220 may promote, demote, or even eliminate a blog document (i.e., blog and/or post) from a set of search results based on the quality score from field 520. DETERMINING A QUALITY SCORE FOR A BLOG DOCUMENT 20 Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an exemplary process for determining a quality score for a blog document in an implementation consistent with the principles of the invention. Processing may begin by obtaining information regarding a blog document to be scored (act 610). The information may include the blog itself, the post, metadata from the blog, and/or one or more feeds associated with the blog document. Positive indicators as to the quality of the blog document may be identified (act 620). Such indicators may 25 include a popularity of the blog document, an implied popularity of the blog document, the existence of the blog document in blogrolls, the existence of the blog document in a high quality blogroll, tagging of the blog document, references to the blog document by other sources, and a pagerank of the blog document. It will be appreciated that other indicators may also be used. 6 The popularity of the blog document may be a positive indication of the quality of that blog document. A number of news aggregator sites (commonly called "news readers" or "feed readers") exist where individuals can subscribe to a blog document (through its feed). Such aggregators store information describing how many individuals have subscribed to given blog documents. A blog document having a high number of subscriptions 5 implies a higher quality for the blog document. Also, subscriptions can be validated against "subscriptions spam" (where spammers subscribe to their own blog documents in an attempt to make them "more popular") by validating unique users who subscribed, or by filtering unique Internet Protocol (IP) addresses of the subscribers. An implied popularity may be identified for the blog document. This implied popularity may be identified by, for example, examining the click stream of search results. For example, if a certain blog document is clicked 10 more than other blog documents when the blog document appears in result sets, this may be an indication that the blog document is popular and, thus, a positive indicator of the quality of the blog document. The existence of the blog document in blogrolls may be a positive indication of the quality of the blog document. It will be appreciated that blog documents often contain not only recent entries (i.e., posts), but also "blogrolls," which are a dense collection of links to external sites (usually other blogs) in which the author/blogger is 15 interested. A blogroll link to a blog document is an indication of popularity of that blog document, so aggregated blogroll links to a blog document can be counted and used to infer magnitude of popularity for the blog document. The existence of the blog document in a high quality blogroll may be a positive indication of the quality of the blog document. A high quality blogroll is a blogroll that links to well-known or trusted bloggers. Therefore, a high quality blogroll that also links to the blog document is a positive indicator of the quality of the blog document. 20 Simlarly, the existence of the blog document in a blogroll of a well-known or trusted blogger may also be a positive indication of the quality of the blog document. In this situation, it is assumed that the well-known or trusted blogger would not link to a spamming blogger. Tagging of the blog document may be a positive indication of the quality of the blog document. Some existing sites allow users to add "tags" to (i.e., to "categorize") a blog document. These custom categorizations are 25 an indicator that an individual has evaluated the content of the blog document and determined that one or more categories appropriately describe its content, and as such are a positive indicator of the quality of the blog document. References to the blog document by other sources may be a positive indication of the quality of the blog document. For example, content of emails or chat transcripts can contain URLs of blog documents. Email or chat discussions that include references to the blog document is a positive indicator of the quality of the blog document. 7 The pagerank of the blog document may be a positive indicator of the quality of the blog document. A high pagerank (a signal usually calculated for regular web pages) is an indicator of high quality and, thus, can be applied to blog documents as a positive indication of the quality of the blog documents. In some implementations, a blog document (e.g., a post) may not be associated with a pagerank (e.g., when the post is new). In those situations, the 5 new post may inherit the pagerank of the blog with which it is associated until such time that an independent pagerank is determined for the new post. This inherited pagerank may serve as a positive indication of the quality of the new post. Negative indicators as to the quality of the blog document may be identified (act 630). Such indicators may include a frequency of new posts on the blog document, the content of the posts in the blog document, a size of 10 the posts in the blog document, a link distribution of the blog document, and the presence of ads in the blog document. It will be appreciated that other indicators may also be used. The frequency at which new posts are added to the blog document may be a negative indication of the quality of that blog document. Feeds typically include only the most recent posts from a blog document. Spammers often generate new posts in spurts (i.e., many new posts appear within a short time period) or at predictable I 5 intervals (one post every 10 minutes, or a post every 3 hours at 32 minutes past the hour). Both behaviors are correlated with malicious intent and can be used to identify possible spammers. Therefore, if the frequency at which new posts are added to the blog document matches a predictable pattern, this may be a negative indication of the quality of the blog document. The content of the posts in the blog document may be a negative indication of the quality of that blog 20 document. A feed typically contains some or all of the content of several posts from a given blog document. The blog document itself also includes the content of the posts. Spammers may put one version of content into a feed to improve their ranking in search results, while putting a different version on their blog document (e.g., links to irrelevant ads). This mismatch (between feed and blog document) can, therefore, be a negative indication of the quality of the blog document. 25 Also, in some instances, particular content may be duplicated in multiple posts in a blog document, resulting in multiple feeds containing the same content. Such duplication indicates the feed is low quality/spam and, thus, can be a negative indication of the quality of the blog document. The words/phrases used in the posts of a blog document may also be a negative indication of the quality of that blog document. For example, from a collection of blog documents and feeds that evaluators rate as spam, a list 8 of words and phrases (bigrams, trigrams, etc.) that appear frequently in spam may be extracted. If a blog document contains a high percentage of words or phrases from the list, this can be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. The size of the posts in a blog document may be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. 5 Many automated post generators create numerous posts of identical or very similar length. As a result, the distribution of post sizes can be used as a reliable measure of spamminess. When a blog document includes numerous posts of identical or very similar length, this may be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. A link distribution of the blog document may be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. As disclosed above, some posts are created to increase the pagerank of a particular blog document. In some cases, a 10 high percentage of all links from the posts or from the blog document all point to ether a single web page, or to a single external site. If the number of links to any single external site exceeds a threshold, this can be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. The presence of ads in the blog document may be a negative indication of quality of the blog document. If a blog document contains a large number of ads, this may be a negative indication of the quality ofthe blog 15 document. Moreover, blog documents typically contain three types of content: the content of recent posts, a blogroll, and blog metadata (e.g., author profile information and/or other information pertinent to the blog document or its author). Ads, if present, typically appear within the blog metadata section or near the blogroll. The presence of ads in the recent posts part of a blog document may be a negative indication of the quality of the blog document. 20 A quality score for the blog document may be determined based on these indicators (act 640). For example, in one implementation, the quality score for a blog document may be determined by assigning a weight to the different indicators and combining the weights to obtain a quality score. The indicators may be combined and/or weighted in any manner. For example, in one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention, each indicator may be given a positive or negative value. These values may be added together to determine a quality 25 score for the blog document. Alternatively, each indicator value may be multiplied by a corresponding factor (or weight) and the resulting values may be totaled to give the quality score for the blog document. Other techniques for determining the quality score may alternatively be used. Once the quality score for the blog document has been determined, it may be associated with the blog document. For example, the quality score may be associated, in a database, such as database 500, with information 9 identifying the blog document for which the score has been determined. In this manner, database 500 may be populated with quality scores for blog documents. The quality scores can be updated periodically. PRESENTING SEARCH RESULTS Fig. 7 is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting search results. In one implementation, the 5 processing of Fig. 7 may be performed by one or more software and/or hardware components within server 220. In another implementation, the processing may be performed by one or more software and/or hardware components within another device or a group of devices separate from or including server 220. Processing may begin with a search query being received (act 710). For example, the user may provide a search query into a search box associated with a search engine (e.g., entering a search term into a search engine 10 interface or a search box of an add-on toolbar). The web browser (or the add-on toolbar) may send the search query to a search engine, such as search engine 225 associated with server 220. A relevance score for a set of documents may be determined based on the search query (act 720). For example, server 220 may determine an information retrieval (IR) score for the documents. The IR score for a document may be determined based on a matching of the search terms of a search query to the content of the 15 document. There are a number of known techniques that may be used to determine the IR score for a document. For example, the IR score may be determined based on the number of occurrences of the search terms in the document. Alternatively or additionally, the IR score may be determined based on where the search terms occur within the document (e.g., title, content, etc.) or characteristics of the search terms (e.g., font, size, color, etc.). Alternatively or additionally, a search term may be weighted differently from another search term when multiple 20 search terms are present. Alternatively or additionally, the proximity of the search terms when multiple search terms are present may influence the IR score. Yet other techniques for determining the IR score for a document are known to those skilled in the art. An overall score for the documents may be determined based on the quality of the documents (act 730). For example, the IR score for each document may be combined with the document's quality score to determine the 25 overall score. Combining the scores may cause the IR scores for the documents to be adjusted based on the quality scores, thereby raising or lowering the scores or, in some cases, leaving the scores the same to obtain the overall scores. Alternatively, the documents may be scored based on the quality scores alone without generating IR scores. In any event, overall scores may be determined for the documents using the quality scores. 10 A ranked set of documents may be provided to the user based on the overall scores for the documents (act 740). In this way, the quality of documents may be used to improve the search results provided to users. EXAMPLE The following example illustrates the above processing. Assume that a user is interested in blogs about 5 fantasy football. The user may submit the search query "fantasy football" to a search engine, such as search engine 225. In response, assume that search engine 225 retrieves a group of blog documents based on their relevance to the search query (e.g., using an IR technique). Fig. 8 is a diagram of an exemplary set of blog documents received in response to the search query. As illustrated, search engine 225 retrieved five blog documents (blog documents 1-5) with the following relevance (or 10 IR) scores: blog document I has an IR score of 1.0, blog document 2 has an IR score of 0.9, blog document 3 has an IR score of 0.8, blog document 4 has an IR score of 0.7, and blog document 5 has an IR score of 0.6. Assume, for explanatory purposes, that these five blog documents have the following quality scores: blog document I has a positive quality score of 0.4, blog document 2 has a negative quality score of -0.4, blog document 3 has a positive quality score of0.8, blog document 4 has a positive quality score of0.3, and 15 blog document 5 has a positive quality score of0.3. Search engine 225 may determine an overall score for the blog documents by adding the relevance score to the quality score. In this case, blog document I would have an overall score of 1.4, blog document 2 would have an overall score of 0.5, blog document 3 would have an overall score of 1.6, blog document 4 would have an overall score of 1.0, and blog document 5 would have an overall score of 0.9. Therefore, search engine 225 may provide 20 blog documents 1-5 to the user in the following order: blog document 3, blog document 1, blog document 4, blog document 5, and blog document 2. As evident from the example of Fig. 8, the quality of blog documents may cause the ranking of those documents to increase or decrease. In this way, higher quality results are provided to the user. CONCLUSION 25 Implementations consistent with the principles of the invention improve blog searching by taking into consideration the quality of the blogs. The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention provides illustration and description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. I I For example, while series of acts have been described with regard to Figs. 6 and 7, the order of the acts may be modified in other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention. Further, non-dependent acts may be performed in parallel. The preceding description refers to a user. A "user" is intended to refer to a client, such as a client 210 5 (Fig. 2), or an operator of a client. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects of the invention, as described above, may be implemented in many different forms of software, firmware, and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects consistent with the principles of the invention is not limiting of the invention. Thus, the operation and behavior of the aspects were 10 described without reference to the specific software code--it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the aspects based on the description herein. No element, act, or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the article "a" is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended, the term "one" or similar language is used. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise. 12