CN107636768B - Context-aware system for providing health information - Google Patents
Context-aware system for providing health information Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN107636768B CN107636768B CN201680027504.XA CN201680027504A CN107636768B CN 107636768 B CN107636768 B CN 107636768B CN 201680027504 A CN201680027504 A CN 201680027504A CN 107636768 B CN107636768 B CN 107636768B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- computing device
- user
- activity
- information
- physical activity
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H20/00—ICT specially adapted for therapies or health-improving plans, e.g. for handling prescriptions, for steering therapy or for monitoring patient compliance
- G16H20/30—ICT specially adapted for therapies or health-improving plans, e.g. for handling prescriptions, for steering therapy or for monitoring patient compliance relating to physical therapies or activities, e.g. physiotherapy, acupressure or exercising
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G09—EDUCATION; CRYPTOGRAPHY; DISPLAY; ADVERTISING; SEALS
- G09B—EDUCATIONAL OR DEMONSTRATION APPLIANCES; APPLIANCES FOR TEACHING, OR COMMUNICATING WITH, THE BLIND, DEAF OR MUTE; MODELS; PLANETARIA; GLOBES; MAPS; DIAGRAMS
- G09B5/00—Electrically-operated educational appliances
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H40/00—ICT specially adapted for the management or administration of healthcare resources or facilities; ICT specially adapted for the management or operation of medical equipment or devices
- G16H40/60—ICT specially adapted for the management or administration of healthcare resources or facilities; ICT specially adapted for the management or operation of medical equipment or devices for the operation of medical equipment or devices
- G16H40/63—ICT specially adapted for the management or administration of healthcare resources or facilities; ICT specially adapted for the management or operation of medical equipment or devices for the operation of medical equipment or devices for local operation
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G16—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
- G16H—HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
- G16H50/00—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics
- G16H50/20—ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis, medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or pandemics for computer-aided diagnosis, e.g. based on medical expert systems
Abstract
A computing device is described that obtains an indication of movement associated with the computing device; in response to determining that the movement does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that a user of the computing device is in a physically active state: determining a recommended physical activity to perform by the user based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device; determining a current activity associated with the user based at least in part on the contextual information. In response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold, the computing device outputs a notification of the recommended physical activity.
Description
Background
Some people may sit or remain largely sedentary for an amount of time deemed unhealthy by some health professionals. To help users maintain a healthier and active lifestyle, there are various types of mobile and wearable computing devices that track user activity and notify the user when he or she has been sitting too long or that the user becomes active at a predetermined time of the day.
Even though a person may have been sitting for a long time, standing up to move around may be impractical in some situations. For example, a user must be seated at all times during a meeting or while riding in a car or train. If the activity tracking device generates a notification to alert the user to become active in a situation where the user is in a situation where he or she cannot move around, the user may simply dismiss the notification and forget to become active at a later time.
Drawings
Fig. 1 is a conceptual diagram illustrating an example system configured to recommend a user of a computing device to perform a physical activity at an appropriate time according to one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
Fig. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an example computing device configured to recommend a user of the computing device to perform a physical activity at an appropriate time in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
Fig. 3 is a block diagram illustrating an example computing device outputting graphical content for display at a remote device in accordance with one or more techniques of this disclosure.
Fig. 4 and 5 are flowcharts illustrating example operations of an example computing device configured to recommend that a user of the computing device perform a physical activity at an appropriate time in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure.
Detailed Description
In general, techniques of this disclosure may enable a computing device to determine, based on contextual (contextual) information, that a user has not had physical activity for a persistent period of time, and in response, determine a recommended physical activity (a recommended physical activity) that the user can perform at a current time. For example, the computing device may analyze movement data associated with the computing device that is used to identify a sedentary time period associated with the user. In response to determining that the user of the computing device has not had physical activity for a certain time, the computing device determines whether "now" (e.g., the current time) is an appropriate time for the recommended user to become physical activity.
The device obtains contextual information associated with the computing device and, given the current context, infers that a recommended physical activity that the user may perform at the current time becomes more physically active. The computing device may output the recommended physical activity as a notification (e.g., a graphical alert, a tactile alert, or an audible alert) for urging the user to perform the recommended physical activity at the current time. In some cases, the device may determine that for a given context, the current time may not be a good time for the user to become physically active (e.g., if the device infers that the user is driving a car, sitting at a meeting or lecture, or performing some other activity that may be adverse to a brief physical activity or exercise), and may avoid recommending physical activity, or in some cases postpone the recommendation until a later time when the user is more likely to become physically active.
Over time, the computing device may guide the user to become more physically active by causing the computing device to output more and more intelligent notifications regarding suggested physical activities. Further, the computing device may perform these operations automatically without requiring such operations to be initiated, for example, by the user, thereby reducing the amount of user input, effort, and time required to find a method to be more physically active.
Throughout this disclosure, the following examples are described: wherein the computing device and/or computing system may analyze the information associated with the computing device (e.g., location, velocity, acceleration) only if the computing device and/or computing system receives explicit permission from a user of the computing device to analyze the information. For example, where the computing devices and/or computing systems discussed below may collect and utilize information associated with users and computing devices, the users may be provided with an opportunity to provide input to control programs or features of the computing devices and/or computing systems to collect and utilize user information (e.g., regarding the user's emails, the user's social networks, social actions or activities, profession, the user's preferences, or the user's past and current locations) or to indicate whether and/or how the computing devices and/or computing systems may receive content that may be relevant to the user. Additionally, certain data may be processed in one or more ways before being stored or used by the computing device and/or computing system such that personally identifiable information is removed. For example, the user identity may be processed such that personally identifiable information about the user cannot be determined, or the user's geographic location may be generalized at the location where the location information is obtained (such as to a city, zip code, or state level) such that a particular location of the user cannot be determined. Thus, a user may control how information is collected about the user and used by the computing device and/or computing system.
Fig. 1 is a conceptual diagram illustrating a system 100 as an example system configured to recommend a user of a computing device to perform a physical activity at an appropriate time in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. System 100 includes computing device 110, information server system 160, and network 130. Although shown as separate devices, in some examples, computing device 110 and information server system 160 represent a single computing device. In some examples, computing device 110 may include at least some of the functionality or capabilities of information server system 160, and vice versa.
Network 130 represents any public or private communication network (e.g., cellular, Wi-Fi, and/or other types of networks) for communicating data between computing devices. Computing devices 110 and information server system 160 may use any suitable communication technology to send and receive data across network 130. For example, computing device 110 may be operatively coupled to network 130 using network link 132A, and information server system 160 may be operatively coupled to network 130 by network link 132B. Network 130 may include network hubs, network switches, network routers, and other network devices operatively coupled to each other to thereby provide for the exchange of information between computing device 110 and information server system 160. In some examples, network links 132A and 132B may be ethernet, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) networks, or other network connections, and these connections may be wireless and/or wired connections.
Information server system 160 represents any suitable remote computing system capable of sending and receiving information with network 130 across network link 132B, such as one or more desktop, laptop, mainframe, server, or cloud computing systems. In some examples, information server system 160 represents a cloud computing system that provides one or more services over network 130. One or more computing devices, such as computing device 110, may access one or more services provided by the cloud via network 130. For example, computing device 110 may store and/or access data in the cloud by communicating with information server system 160 via network 130.
Information server system 160 includes device context module 162, activity tracking module 164, and contextual information data store 180B. Modules 162 and 164 may perform the described operations using software, hardware, firmware, or a mixture of hardware, software, and firmware residing on and/or executing at information server system 160. Information server system 160 may execute information modules 162 and 164 having multiple processors or multiple devices. Information server system 160 may execute modules 162 and 164 as virtual machines executing on the underlying hardware. Modules 162 and 164 may execute as services of an operating system or computing platform. Modules 162 and 164 may execute at the application layer of the computing platform as one or more executable programs.
As used throughout this disclosure, the term "contextual information" is used to describe information that a computing system and/or computing device, such as information server system 160 and computing device 110, may use to define one or more environmental characteristics associated with the computing device and/or a user of the computing device. In other words, the contextual information represents any data that the computing device and/or computing system may use to determine a "user context" that indicates a situation that forms an experience for a particular location experience (e.g., virtual and/or physically) at a particular time.
Examples of contextual information include past, current, and future physical location, degree of movement, magnitude of change associated with movement, weather conditions, traffic conditions, travel patterns, movement patterns, application usage, calendar information, purchase history, internet browsing history, and the like. In some examples, contextual information may include sensor information obtained by one or more sensors (e.g., gyroscopes, accelerometers, proximity sensors) of a computing device, such as computing device 110, radio transmission information obtained from one or more communication units and/or radios of the computing device (e.g., Global Positioning System (GPS), cellular, Wi-Fi), information obtained by one or more input devices (e.g., cameras, microphones, keyboards, touch pads, mice) of the computing device, and network/device identifier information (e.g., network name, device internet protocol address). In some examples, contextual information may include communication information such as information derived with email messages, text messages, voicemail messages or voice conversations, calendar entries, task lists, social media network-related information, and any other information about a user or computing device that may support user contextual determinations.
Context module 162 may perform operations for determining a context associated with a user of a computing device, such as a user of computing device 110. Context module 162 may process and analyze the contextual information stored at data store 180B and, based on the contextual information, define a user context that specifies a state or physical operating environment of a user of computing device 110. In other words, context module 162 may process contextual information received from computing device 110 stored at data store 180B for generating a user context for the user of computing device 110 that specifies one or more characteristics associated with the user of computing device 110 and his or her physical environment at a particular time (e.g., location, organization name, street address, and/or location type, building, weather conditions, traffic conditions, calendar information, meeting information, event information). In some examples, context module 162 may determine a physical location associated with computing device 110 based on contextual information stored at data store 180B and update the physical location when context module 162 detects a change in the contextual information (e.g., based on sensor information indicating movement over time).
Context module 162 may maintain a context history associated with a user of computing device 110 and store the context history as context information at data store 180B. For example, context module 162 may periodically update the location of computing device 110 and store the location along with the date and time as a location history at data store 180B. Context module 162 may share location information with activity tracking module 164 and health module 120 of computing device 110 to predict, infer, or confirm whether the user of computing device 110 is currently engaged in physical or sedentary activities, and further predict whether the user may perform (e.g., at ease, without embarrassment or social reputation harm) one or more physical activities at a particular time.
In some examples, activity tracking module 164 may determine a respective score, probability, or other likelihood associated with each of the one or more activities that indicates how likely or unlikely the user is actually performing the activity at a particular time. For example, the activity tracking module 164 may determine with a 95% confidence that the user is driving a car, riding a train, sitting at a table, or performing some other activity.
The activity tracking module 164 may provide an Application Programming Interface (API) from which a computing device, such as the computing device 110, may query the activity tracking module 164 for the current activities that the user is performing at a particular time. For example, in response to a query received from computing device 110 over network 130 via network link 132B for a current activity being performed by a user of computing device 110, activity tracking module 164 may output, via network link 132B and over network 130, an indication (e.g., data, message, signal) indicating which activity the user is likely to be performing at the current time and/or a probability, score, or other likelihood or confidence that the system has that the user is performing the activity. For example, the activity tracking module 164 may respond to the query from the computing device 110 with a message indicating that the system predicts with high confidence that the user is waiting for a bus at a bus stop.
In the example of fig. 1, computing device 110 is a mobile computing device. However, in other examples, the computing device 110 may be a tablet computer, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a laptop computer, a portable gaming device, a portable media player, an e-book reader, a watch, a television platform, a car navigation system, a wearable computing device (e.g., a headset device, a watch device, a goggle device, a glove device), or other type of computing device.
As shown in fig. 1, computer device 110 includes a presence-sensitive display (PSD) 112. The PSD 112 of the computing device 110 may serve as an input device and an output device for the computing device 110. The PSD 112 may be implemented using various techniques. For example, PSD 112 may be used as an input device using a presence-sensitive input component (such as a resistive touch screen, a surface acoustic wave touch screen, a capacitive touch screen, a projected capacitive touch screen, a presence-sensitive screen, an acoustic pulse recognition touch screen, or another presence-sensitive display technology). The PSD 112 may function as an output (e.g., display) device capable of outputting visible information to a user of the computing device 110, such as a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), dot matrix display, Light Emitting Diode (LED) display, organic Light Emitting Diode (LED) display, electronic ink, or similar monochrome or color display, using one or more display components.
The health information stored at data store 180A may be general information (e.g., standardized across multiple persons) and/or may be specific information associated with a particular person, such as a user of computing device 110. For example, computing device 110 may store information related to one or more health goals associated with an average user of a plurality of computing devices including computing device 110; and the computing device 110 may store information related to one or more health goals associated with a particular user of the computing device 110. As described below, health module 120 may access health information data stored at data store 180A.
While data store 180A may contain health information associated with an individual user, this information may be processed such that all personally identifiable information linking the information back to the individual (such as name, address, phone number, and/or email address) may be removed prior to storage at information server system 110. Additionally, if these users affirmatively agree to this information collection, the computing device 110 may only store health information associated with the users of the computing device 110. Computing device 110 may also provide the user with an opportunity to cancel this consent, and in such a case, information server system 110 may stop collecting health and context information associated with that particular user.
The health information data store 180A may store information related to one or more types of physical activities or exercises that a person may perform at a particular time in order to have more physical activity (e.g., riding, walking, running, jogging, canoe, kayak, roller skating). For example, the health information data store 180A may store health information about a bicycle ride (such as the average energy spent by a person per unit distance traveled while riding a bicycle). Other examples of health information may include weather information (e.g., temperature, humidity) indicating a preferred, declared and/or predicted preferred weather condition for a person while walking. In some examples, health information data store 180A may store types of physical activities or exercises according to a predefined context. For example, health information data store 180A may include a matrix of different contexts and corresponding activities. Rows in the matrix may be associated with a particular context, and each column may be associated with a particular activity. Thus, the matrix may define, among those different contexts, which types of activities may be performed for each of the different contexts.
Other examples of types of information stored at data store 180A include declared or inferred health goals about the person, fitness history, current exercise performance, historical health performance, or historical activity information (e.g., average walking speed, jogging speed, heart rate, etc.). Other types of information stored at data store 180A may include a history indicating the person's daily activity level on the current day, month, year, or over multiple days, months, or years. For example, the data store 180A may include entries indicating the number of steps taken by the user on the day or the expected amount of calories burned by the user on a particular day.
Health information may be organized within data store 180A and may be searched (e.g., based on physical activity or exercise type, individual name, etc.). Computing device 110 may access data within data store 180A, for example, by executing query commands related to one or more potential physical activities that may be performed for a particular context. In response to the query command, information server system 160 may obtain from data store 180A information related to one or more recommended physical activities from one or more possible physical activities that best suit the user's lifestyle or preferred exercise habits inferred by computing device 110 from the health information in data store 180A, or that the recommended one or more physical activities may otherwise assist the user in achieving his or her health goals (e.g., so as to become more active). The computing device 110 may use the information retrieved from the data store 180A to determine whether to recommend a particular physical activity as the recommended physical activity performed by the user of the computing device 110 at the current time.
In some examples, health module 120 may compare the sensor information obtained from sensor component 114 to one or more activity thresholds that health module 120 uses to determine whether the user of computing device 110 is currently active and does not need to be pushed to move around or whether the user is inactive (e.g., sleeping, sitting, etc.) and possibly for a period of time that exercise is recommended. For example, the activity threshold may correspond to a pattern of movement that is often detected by the computing device 110 when the user is walking, jogging, riding, and the like. Health module 120 may determine that the user of computing device 110 is active if the detected movement based on the sensor information obtained from sensor component 114 sufficiently corresponds to the movement pattern defined by the activity threshold. Health module 120 may determine that the user of computing device 110 is inactive if the detected movement does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that the user of computing device 110 is in a physically active state.
As used herein, the term "physical activity state" refers to the moment at which a user is walking, standing, riding, swimming, exercising, or otherwise moving so as to be considered "physical activity". Physical activity may be defined by heart rate, sweating, breathing rate, or some other physiological condition that indicates that the user is not at rest. Conversely, the term "state of physical inactivity" refers to a moment when the user is sitting, lying, sleeping, floating, relaxing, or otherwise moving so as to be considered "physical inactivity". Physical inactivity may be defined by heart rate, sweating, breathing rate, or some other physiological condition that indicates that the user is resting.
The health module 120 may rely on activity thresholds based on actual, modeled, predicted, or otherwise inferred movement patterns. In some examples, a machine learning system (or other type of predictive or artificial intelligent model) of health module 120 may generate and access movement patterns for subsequent inference, prediction, or otherwise determining a period of time during which a user of computing device 110 is likely to be active or inactive.
In response to determining that the movement associated with computing device 110 does not satisfy the activity threshold indicating that the user of computing device is in a physical activity state, health module 120 may determine, based at least in part on contextual information associated with computing device 110, a recommended physical activity (e.g., at the current time) to be performed by the user of computing device 110. In other words, to encourage the user of computing device 110 to become more active, health module 120 may identify one or more physical activities that the user may perform in lieu of keeping a primary sedentary or idle.
For example, after detecting a period of persistent inactivity associated with the user (e.g., thirty minutes, an hour, a day, etc.), health module 120 may issue a query to context module 162 of information server system 160 for the current context of the computing device. In response to the query, health module 120 may receive an indication (e.g., data, message, signal, etc.) that defines a current context of computing device 110 for health module 120. For example, the health module 120 may receive information from the context module 162 indicating that the user is likely to stand along a street or at an intersection located at or near a bus stop. Based on the information received from the context module 162, the health module 120 may determine one or more workouts that the user may perform while at the bus stop.
Further in response to determining that the movement associated with computing device 110 does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that the user of computing device is in a physically active state, health module 120 may determine, based on contextual information associated with computing device 110, a current action associated with the user of computing device 110. Based on the current activity, health module 120 may determine whether it should recommend any of one or more workouts that the user may perform while at the bus stop.
For example, health module 120 may issue a query to activity tracking module 164 for a current activity that a user of computing device 110 is performing at a current time. Activity tracking module 164 may query context module 162 for the defined context of computing device 110 and determine, based on the current context, one or more activities that a user of computing device 110 may be performing at the current time. For example, a rule-based algorithm or machine learning system may receive a current context of computing device 110 as input and, in response, output an indication of one or more activities inferred by the system regarding user behavior for the current context. In some examples, activity tracking module 164 may rely on calendar information, communication information, and/or other contextual information associated with the user to infer which activity the user may be performing at the current time.
In the example of fig. 1, activity tracking module 164 may use the context associated with computing device 110 and potentially other information associated with the user to infer that the user is "commuting home" after determining that the user is waiting at or near a bus stop at a typical time of the day that he or she typically waits to go home from a work bus. The activity tracking module 164 may output an indication to the health module 120 that the user may be performing an activity commuting home from a bus stop near which he or she is working. In some examples, activity tracking module 164 may determine respective scores, probabilities, or other likelihoods indicating how likely or unlikely the user is commuting home.
Further in response to determining that the movement associated with the computing device 110 does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device 110 is in a state of physical activity, and also in response to determining that a likelihood that the recommended physical activity may be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold, the health module 120 may output a notification recommending physical activity. For example, in response to determining that "walking to the next bus stop" is a recommended workout when the user is located at or near a bus stop, health module 120 may determine whether the user has sufficient time to walk to the next stop and still catch up with the bus coming home to perform the inferred "commute to home" activity. In other words, the health module 120 may determine whether the user may perform any of the recommended workouts while at the bus stop without preventing the user's commute home.
In response to determining that the user will likely have a 5 minute savings to reach the next stop before the bus stops at the next stop, health module 120 may output as a graphical indication a notification that the user may obtain certain physical activity points by walking to the next stop rather than waiting at the current stop. In other words, the health module 120 may determine that the user may be able to walk to the next bus stop with some confidence without preventing the user's commute home. For example, health module 120 may cause a presence-sensitive display to output a graphical notification (such as the notification displayed in screenshot 116).
Over time, by causing the computing device to output more and more intelligent notifications of suggested physical activities, the described techniques may enable the computing device to guide the user to become more physically active. Moreover, the described techniques may enable a computing device to perform these operations automatically, e.g., without requiring the operations to be initiated by a user, thereby reducing the amount of user input, the amount of work, and the time required to find a method to be more physically active. For example, if the computing device detects walking to a suggested bus stop and taking a bus from the suggested bus stop to the user's home, the computing device may increase the weight or priority of the rule "walk instead of taking to the next bus stop" to maintain or increase the likelihood that the corresponding information card will be presented. Conversely, if the computing device cannot detect walking to a proposed bus stop but instead detects taking a bus to reach the user's home from the original bus stop, the computing device may decrease the weight or priority of the rule "walk instead of taking to the next bus stop" to increase the likelihood that a different information card, such as "consider 10 squats", will be presented. As such, the user may interact with the computing device to track health progress and be alerted to become more active without actually having to provide input directly at the computing device. In other words, the computing device may receive implicit input about the user. By not requiring the user to provide input to track wellness progress and setting alerts for becoming inactive, the computing device may perform fewer operations related to receiving user input, thus consuming less power.
Fig. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an example computing device 210 configured to recommend physical activities performed by a user of the computing device at appropriate times in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. Computing device 210 of fig. 2 is described below in the context of computing device 110 and system 100 of fig. 1. In some examples, computing device 210 of fig. 2 represents an example of computing device 110 of fig. 1. In other examples, computing device 210 represents an example of system 100 of fig. 1. Fig. 2 illustrates only one particular example of computing device 210, and many other examples of computing device 210 may be used in other situations and may include a subset of the components included in example computing device 210 or may include additional components not shown in fig. 2.
As shown in the example of fig. 2, computing device 210 includes a presence-sensitive display 212, one or more processors 240, one or more input components 242, one or more communication units 244, one or more output components 244, and one or more storage components 248. Presence-sensitive display (PSD)212 includes display component 202 and presence-sensitive input component 204. The input assembly 242 includes a sensor assembly 214.
The storage components 248 of the computing device 200 also include a health module 220, one or more application modules 224, and an activity tracking API module 272. Health module 220 also includes a suggestion module 222. Additionally, storage components 248 include a health information data store 280A, a contextual information data store 280B, an exercise rule data store 280C, and an application information data store 280D (which exist as separate data stores or as a subset of contextual information data store 280B). In general, data stores 280A-280D may be referred to as "data stores 280".
One or more input components 242 of computing device 210 may receive input. Examples of inputs are tactile, audio and video inputs. In one example, input component 242 of computing device 200 includes a presence-sensitive display, a touch-sensitive screen, a mouse, a keyboard, a voice response system, a camera, a microphone, or any other type of device for detecting input from a human or machine. The one or more input components 242 include one or more sensor components 214. Numerous examples of sensor components 214 exist and include any input component configured to obtain environmental information about the environment surrounding computing device 210 and/or physiological information defining the activity state and/or physical health of a user of computing device 210. For example, the sensor components 214 may include one or more location sensors 290A (GPS components, Wi-Fi components, cellular components), one or more temperature sensors 290B, one or more movement sensors 290C (e.g., accelerometers, gyroscopes), one or more pressure sensors 290D (e.g., barometers), one or more ambient light sensors 290E, and one or more other sensors 290F (e.g., microphones, cameras, infrared proximity sensors, hygrometers, etc.).
One or more output components 246 of computing device 210 may generate output. Examples of outputs are tactile, audio and video outputs. In one example, output components 246 of computing device 210 include a presence-sensitive display, a sound card, a video graphics adapter card, a speaker, a Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) monitor, a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), or any other type of device for generating output to a human or machine.
One or more communication units 244 of computing device 210 may communicate with external devices via one or more wired and/or wireless networks by sending and/or receiving network signals over one or more networks. Examples of communication unit 244 include a network interface card (e.g., such as an ethernet card), an optical transceiver, a radio frequency transceiver, a GPS receiver, or any other type of device that can send and/or receive information. Other examples of the communication unit 244 may include short wave radios, cellular data radios, wireless network radios, and Universal Serial Bus (USB) controllers.
Presence-sensitive display (PSD)212 of computing device 200 includes display component 202 and presence-sensitive input component 204. Display component 202 can be a screen where information is displayed by USD 212, while presence-sensitive input component 204 can detect objects at and/or near display component 202. As one example range, presence-sensitive input component 204 may detect an object such as a finger or stylus within 2 inches or less of display component 202. Presence-sensitive input component 204 may determine a location (e.g., (x, y) coordinates) of display component 202 where the object is detected. In another example range, presence-sensitive input component 204 may detect objects up to 6 inches or less from display component 202, other ranges are possible. Presence-sensitive input component 204 may use capacitive, inductive, and/or optical recognition techniques to determine the location of display component 202 selected by the user's finger. In some examples, presence-sensitive input component 204 also provides output to the user using tactile, audio, or video stimuli, as described with respect to display component 202. In the example of FIG. 2, PSD212 presents a user interface (such as user interface screenshot 116 of FIG. 1).
Although illustrated as an internal component of computing device 210, presence-sensitive display 212 may also represent an external component that shares a data path with computing device 210 for sending and/or receiving input and output. For example, in one example, PSD212 represents a built-in component of computing device 210 (e.g., a screen on a mobile phone) that is located within and physically connected to an external enclosure of computing device 210. In another example, PSD212 represents an external component of computing device 210 that is located outside of and physically separate from the packaging of computing device 210 (e.g., a monitor, projector, etc. that shares a wired and/or wireless data path with a tablet computer).
PSD212 of computing device 210 may receive tactile input from a user of computing device 110. PSD 112 may receive indications of tactile input by detecting one or more gestures from a user of computing device 210 (e.g., the user touching or pointing to one or more locations of PSD 112 with a finger or stylus). PSD212 may present output to a user. PSD212 may present the output as a graphical user interface (e.g., as graphical screenshot 116) that may be associated with functionality provided by computing device 210. For example, PSD212 may present various user interfaces for components of a computing platform, operating system, application, or service (e.g., an electronic message application, a navigation application, an internet browser application, a mobile operating system, etc.) executing at or accessible to computing device 210. The user may interact with the respective user interfaces to cause computing device 210 to perform operations related to the functions.
PSD212 of computing device 210 may detect two-dimensional and/or three-dimensional gestures as input from a user of computing device 210. For example, a sensor of PSD212 may detect movement of the user (e.g., moving a hand, arm, pen, stylus, etc.) within a threshold distance of the sensor of PSD 212. PSD212 may determine a two-dimensional or three-dimensional vector representation of the movement and associate the vector representation with a gesture input having multiple dimensions (e.g., a hand wave, a pinch, a clap, a stroke, etc.). In other words, PSD212 may detect multi-dimensional gestures without requiring the user to gesture at or near a screen or surface at which PSD212 outputs information for display. Alternatively, PSD212 may detect multi-dimensional gestures performed at or near a sensor, which may or may not be located near a screen or surface where PSD212 outputs information for display.
One or more processors 240 may implement functions and/or execute instructions within computing device 212. For example, processor 240 on computing device 212 may receive and execute instructions stored by storage component 248 that perform the functions of modules 220, 222, 224, and 272. These instructions executed by processor 240 may cause computing device 210 to store information within storage component 248 during program execution. Examples of processor 240 include an application processor, a display controller, a sensor hub, and any other hardware configured to function as a processing unit. Processor 240 may execute instructions of modules 220, 222, 224, and 272 to cause PSD212 to render a portion of the content of the display data as one of user interface screenshots 116 at PSD 212. That is, modules 220, 222, 224, and 272 may be operated by processor 240 to perform various actions or functions of computing device 210.
One or more storage components 248 within computing device 210 may store information for processing during operation of computing device 210 (e.g., computing device 210 may store data for access by modules 220, 222, 224, and 272 during execution at computing device 210). In some examples, storage component 248 is a temporary memory, meaning that the primary purpose of storage component 248 is not long-term storage. Storage component 248 on computing device 220 may be configured to store information as volatile memory for a short period of time, thus not retaining stored content if power is removed. Examples of volatile memory include Random Access Memory (RAM), Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), and other forms of volatile memory known in the art.
In some examples, storage component 248 also includes one or more computer-readable storage media. Storage component 248 may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage component 248 may also be configured to store information for long periods of time as non-volatile memory space and to retain information after power on/off cycles. Examples of non-volatile memory include magnetic hard disks, optical disks, floppy disks, flash memory, or forms of electrically programmable memory (EPROM) or Electrically Erasable and Programmable (EEPROM) memory. Storage component 248 may store program instructions and/or information (e.g., data) associated with modules 220, 222, 224, and 272, and data storage 280.
The application module 224 may store the application information at the application information data store 280D for subsequent retrieval and use in performing functions. For example, the calendar application of module 224 may store the electronic calendar at data store 280D. Similarly, an email application, a messaging application, a search application, a transportation service application, or any other one of application modules 224 may store information or data for subsequent retrieval in data store 280D.
In other examples, activity tracking module 272 represents an Application Programming Interface (API) associated with activity tracking module 164 of information server system 160. Activity tracking module 272 may provide an interface for receiving input to activity tracking module 164 and providing output received from activity tracking module 164 to other modules, applications, and/or components executing at computing device 210. For example, activity tracking module 272 may receive as input an identifier of computing device 210 and/or contextual information associated with computing device 210 from health module 220, and in response, query activity tracking module 164 for an indication of one or more activities that a user of computing device 210 is likely to perform at a particular time. Activity tracking module 272 may output an indication of one or more activities back to fitness module 220 to infer one or more recommended workouts.
Health module 220 may provide similar functionality as health module 120 of computing device 110 shown in fig. 1. That is, health management module 220 may determine, based on contextual information stored at data store 280B, whether the user of computing device 210 has been inactive for an extended period of time and, if so, determine that the recommended physical activity that the user may perform at the current time becomes more physically active.
The fitness module 220 includes a suggestion module 222 for determining a recommended physical activity that the user may perform at the current time. Additionally, suggestion module 222 may determine when health module 220 should avoid recommending physical activities (e.g., when a user may have difficulty exercising while performing a particular activity at a particular time). For example, suggestion module 222 may execute as a rule-based algorithm or function as a machine learning system that uses contextual information to predict what types of exercises a user of computing device 210 may perform at a particular time to become more physically active. The computing device stores a rule-based algorithm or machine learning system at exercise rule data store 280C.
Workout rule data store 280C may be based on various observations regarding user behavior for different contexts. Some rules stored at data store 280C may provide suggestion module 222 with an indication of one or more recommended physical activities that a user may perform for a particular context. However, other rules stored at data store 280C may provide an indication to suggestion module 222 of whether the one or more recommended physical activities are compatible with a particular activity performed by the user for a particular context.
For example, suggestion module 222 may provide contextual information, health information, and/or application information as input to exercise rule data store 280C and, in response, receive an indication of one or more recommended physical activities that a user may perform for a particular context. The one or more recommended physical activities may be ranked with a "score" used by the suggestion module 222 to discern a physical activity of the one or more physical activities to be recommended. For example, if the association score output by the rule does not satisfy a threshold (e.g., 90%, etc.), the suggestion module 222 may refrain from recommending physical activity.
In some examples, suggestion module 222 performs operations similar to device context module 162 to determine a user context of the user of computing device 210 based on contextual information (e.g., health information, application information, communication information, location information, sensor information, and all other information associated with the user of computing device 210) stored at data stores 280A, 280B, and 280D. The suggestion module 222 may determine a user context and provide the user context as input to one or more rule suggestion modules 222 in order to determine a recommended exercise or a recommended physical activity. Suggestion module 222 may provide the user context as input to activity tracking module 272 in order to determine a current physical activity or other current activity performed by the user of computing device 210 at a particular time.
In operation, in response to determining that the movement associated with computing device 210 does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in a physical activity state, suggestion module 222 may determine a recommended physical activity to be performed by the user. For example, the suggestion module 222 may receive sensor information from one or more sensor components 214. In some examples, suggestion module 222 may receive accelerometer readings or output from sensor component 214 that is inferred from the accelerometer readings indicative of movement associated with computing device 210.
In response to determining that the movement associated with computing device 210 does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in a non-physical activity state or sedentary state, suggestion module 222 may determine a recommended physical activity to be performed by the user. In some examples, suggestion module 222 may determine the recommended physical activity based on contextual information, health goals associated with the user, historical activity information associated with the user, current activity associated with the user, and/or any and all other information associated with the user.
For example, health module 220 may maintain health information about a user of computing device 210 at health information data store 280A. The suggestion module 222 may perform a lookup of the information contained at the data store 280A to determine a health goal associated with the user. The health goal may be a goal that the user must walk a certain number of steps per day. The suggestion module 222 may determine, based on the goal, that the recommended exercise for the user to perform or the recommended physical activity is walking.
Health module 220 may maintain historical activity information associated with a user of computing device 210 at health information data store 280A. Suggestion module 222 may perform a lookup of historical information contained at data store 280A to determine a health goal associated with the user. The historical information may include information about the average number of steps the user typically takes on a particular day. The suggestion module 222 may determine, based on historical information, that the recommended physical activity to be performed by the user is an additional step of walking in order to maintain a rhythm of typical steps or other typical fitness level maintained by the user on any given particular day.
To determine whether the current time is a convenient time to drive the user into an activity by, for example, outputting an alert as a notification of a recommended physical activity, suggestion module 222 may determine the current activity the user is performing and then determine whether the current activity supports performing the recommended physical activity. In some examples, suggestion module 222 may determine the current activity by sending at least a portion of contextual information associated with the computing device to a remote activity tracking system, query the remote activity tracking system for an indication of the current activity, and receive the indication of the current activity from the remote activity tracking system. For example, suggestion module 222 may invoke an API provided by activity tracking module 272 by providing contextual information and/or a device identifier (e.g., an account name, a phone number, an email address, or some other identifying information) associated with computing device 220 as input to the API, and in response, receive an indication of current activity. The indication of current activity may include data indicating that a user of computing device 220 is currently positioned to attend the working meeting.
In some examples, suggestion module 222 may determine to recommend a physical activity based at least in part on the current activity. For example, if suggestion module 222 infers a low amount of activity by the user of computing device 210 during a thirty minute meeting or car ride, suggestion module 222 may determine a different recommended physical activity than the low amount of activity detected during a sixty or ninety minute meeting or car ride. For example, suggestion module 222 may determine that standing only for one or two minutes is appropriate for recommended physical activity during a thirty minute meeting, while resting and taking five minutes to walk to a restroom and return may be appropriate for recommended physical activity during a sixty or ninety minute meeting.
The suggestion module 222 may determine whether a likelihood that the recommended physical activity may be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold. For example, suggestion module 222 may provide recommended physical activities (e.g., walking) and current activities (e.g., attending a work meeting) as inputs into exercise rules stored at data store 280C and, in response, receive scores, probabilities, or other likelihoods indicating whether the recommended physical activities and current activities may be performed concurrently. In other words, suggestion module 222 may use the workout rules stored at data store 280C to determine with some degree of certainty whether the user of computing device 210 can take a walk and simultaneously attend a work meeting at the current location.
In response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity may be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies the probability threshold, suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to output a notification of the recommended physical activity (e.g., as a graphical notification at PSD212 and/or as an audible or other type of alert using output component 246). For example, the suggestion module 222 may utilize a probability threshold (e.g., 50%, 80%, etc.).
If the recommended physical activity and the current activity can be performed with a likelihood that the probability threshold is met, suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to output a notification. Otherwise, if the recommended physical activity and the current activity can be performed with a likelihood that the probability threshold is not met, suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to refrain from outputting the notification.
For example, suggestion module 222 may determine that a user of computing device 220 may only be standing up and starting to move around approximately 20% of the time if the user is participating in a personal meeting at a work location where other meeting participants are participating. In this example, suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to refrain from outputting the notification.
In some examples, suggestion module 222 may delay the output of the notification until a subsequent time. Suggestion module 222 may determine that after the meeting, the user may stand up and begin walking and cause health module 220 to output the notification at a later time such that the notification is delivered to the user at a time that is more appropriate or more likely to render the response illegitimate and cause the user to perform the recommended workout.
In the event that suggestion module 222 outputs a delayed notification (e.g., a notification that is delayed until a subsequent time), suggestion module 222 may output the delayed notification with an increase in graphical, tactile, and/or audible intensity such that the notification is more noticeable to the user. In other words, after the suggestion module 222 determines that the user does not become active at a particular time, the suggestion module 222 may reinforce the alert to increase the likelihood that the user will respond to the notification by performing the recommended workout at a later time.
In some examples, suggestion module 222 may anticipate that the user may not be able to perform the recommended workout at a future time and proactively output a notification of the recommended physical activity at an earlier time. For example, suggestion module 222 may determine that a future meeting will last for half an hour or more and cause health module 220 to output a notification 10 minutes prior to the meeting as a suggestion or impetus for the user to begin walking to the meeting earlier to make some ambulation prior to the meeting.
However, for some conferences (e.g., a virtual meeting or a teleconference session in which the user is attending from his or her office), suggestion module 222 may determine that the user is able to stand up and begin walking approximately 90% of the time. In this example, suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to refrain from outputting the notification.
In some examples, suggestion module 222 may determine a future time at which the user of the computing device will be unable to perform the recommended physical activity based at least in part on the contextual information. Suggestion module 222 may cause the health module to output a notification of the recommended physical activity in response to determining that the recommended physical activity may be performed before the future time.
For example, in addition to determining whether the recommended physical activity and the current activity may be performed simultaneously, suggestion module 222 may determine whether the user may complete performing the recommended physical activity without interfering with the user's future schedule. For example, if the user is between work meetings, suggestion module 222 may determine that the user has fifteen minutes before a subsequent meeting begins (e.g., based on calendar information stored at application information data store 280D). Suggestion module 222 may cause health module 220 to output a graphical notification at PSD212 suggesting that the user take ten minutes to perform some additional exercise without being late in a subsequent meeting.
Fig. 3 is a block diagram illustrating a computing device 300 as an example computing device that is output for display at a remote device in accordance with one or more techniques of this disclosure. Computing device 300 is a further example of computing device 110 of fig. 1 and computing device 210 of fig. 2.
In general, graphical content may include any visual information that may be output for display, such as text, an image, a set of moving images, and so forth. The example shown in fig. 3 includes a computing device 300, a presence-sensitive display 301, a communication unit 310, a projector 320, a projector screen 122, a mobile device 326, a visual display device 330, and an attachment mechanism 334 (e.g., a component of a wearable computing device that is attached to a user's body or clothing). Although shown as stand-alone computing devices 110 and 210, respectively, for purposes of example in fig. 1 and 2, a computing device such as computing device 300 may generally be any system, device, or component thereof that includes a processor or other suitable computing environment for executing software instructions and, for example, need not include a presence-sensitive display.
As shown in the example of fig. 3, computing device 300 may be a processor that includes the functionality described above with respect to processor 240 in fig. 2. In these examples, computing device 300 may be operably coupled with presence-sensitive display 301 through communication channel 302A, which communication channel 302A may be a system bus or other suitable connection. The computing device 300 may also be operatively coupled to a communication unit 310, described further below, by a communication channel 302B, which communication channel 302B may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in fig. 3, computing device 300 may be operably coupled with presence-sensitive display 301 and communication unit 310 by any number of one or more communication channels.
Presence-sensitive display 301 includes a display device 303 and a presence-sensitive input device 305. Display device 303 may receive data from computing device 300 and display graphical content, for example. In some examples, presence-sensitive input device 305 may determine one or more user inputs (e.g., continuous gestures, multi-touch gestures, single-touch gestures, etc.) at presence-sensitive display 301 using capacitive, inductive, and/or optical recognition techniques and send an indication of such user inputs to computing device 300 using communication channel 302A. In some examples, presence-sensitive input device 305 may be physically positioned on top of display device 303 such that when a user positions an input unit over a graphical element displayed by display device 303, the position of presence-sensitive input device 305 corresponds to the position at which display device 303 displays the graphical element. In other examples, presence-sensitive input device 305 may be physically located separate from display device 303, and the location of presence-sensitive input device 305 may correspond to the location of display device 303, such that inputs may be made at presence-sensitive input device 305 for interacting with graphical elements displayed at the corresponding location of display device 303.
As shown in fig. 3, computing device 300 may also include a communication unit 310 and/or be operatively coupled with communication unit 310. The communication unit 310 may include the functionality of the communication unit 244 as described in fig. 2. Examples of communication unit 310 may include a network interface card, an ethernet card, an optical transceiver, a radio frequency transceiver, or any other type of device that may send and receive information. Other examples of these communication units may includeComputing device 300 may also include and/or be operably coupled with one or more other devices, examplesSuch as input devices, output devices, memory, storage devices, etc., which are not shown in fig. 6 for purposes of brevity and illustration.
Fig. 3 also illustrates a projector 320 and a projector screen 322. Other examples of projection devices may include electronic whiteboards, holographic display devices, and any other suitable device for displaying graphical content. Projector 320 and projector screen 322 may include one or more communication units that enable the respective devices to communicate with computing device 300. In some examples, the one or more communication units may enable communication between projector 320 and projector screen 322. Projector 320 may receive data from computing device 300 that includes graphical content. In response to receiving the data, projector 320 may project graphical content onto projector screen 322. In some examples, projector 320 may determine one or more user inputs (e.g., continuous gestures, multi-touch gestures, single-touch gestures, double-sided box gestures, etc.) at the projector screen using optical recognition or other suitable techniques and send an indication of such user inputs to computing device 300 using one or more communication units. In such examples, projector screen 322 may not be necessary, and projector 320 may project graphical content onto any suitable medium and detect one or more user inputs using optical recognition or other such suitable techniques.
In some examples, projector screen 322 may include a presence-sensitive display 324. Presence-sensitive display 324 may include a subset of the functionality or all of the functionality of PSDs 112 and 212 described in this disclosure. In some examples, presence-sensitive display 324 may include additional functionality. Projector screen 322 (e.g., an electronic whiteboard) may receive data from computing device 300 and display graphical content. In some examples, presence-sensitive display 324 may use capacitive, inductive, and/or optical recognition techniques to determine one or more user inputs (e.g., continuous gestures, multi-touch gestures, single-touch gestures, double-sided box gestures, etc.) at projector screen 322 and send indications of such user inputs to computing device 300 using one or more communication units.
Fig. 3 also illustrates a mobile device 326 and a visual display device 330. The mobile device 326 and the visual display device 330 may each include computing and connectivity capabilities. Examples of mobile devices 326 may include electronic reader devices, convertible notebook devices, hybrid tablet devices, and the like. Examples of visual display device 330 may include other semi-stationary devices such as televisions, computer monitors, and the like. As shown in fig. 3, mobile device 326 may include a presence-sensitive display 328. Visual display device 330 may include a presence-sensitive display 332. Presence-sensitive display 332 may, for example, receive data from computing device 300 and display graphical content. In some examples, presence-sensitive display 332 may use capacitive, inductive, and/or optical recognition techniques to determine one or more user inputs (e.g., continuous gestures, multi-touch gestures, single-touch gestures, double-sided box gestures, etc.) at the projector screen and send an indication of such user inputs to computing device 300 using one or more communication units.
As described above, in some examples, computing device 300 may output graphical content for display at presence-sensitive display 301 that is coupled to computing device 300 by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device 300 may also output the graphical content for display at one or more remote devices, such as projector 320, projector screen 322, mobile device 326, and visual display device 330. For example, computing device 300 may execute one or more instructions to generate and/or modify graphical content in accordance with the techniques of this disclosure. Computing device 300 may output data including graphical content to a communication unit (such as communication unit 310) of computing device 300. Communication unit 310 may also send data to one or more of the remote devices, such as projector 320, projector screen 322, mobile device 326, and/or visual display device 330. In this manner, the computing device 300 may output graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples, one or more of the remote devices may output graphical content at a display device (such as a presence-sensitive display) included in and/or operatively coupled to the respective remote device.
In some examples, computing device 300 may not output graphical content at presence-sensitive display 301 operatively coupled to computing device 300. In other examples, computing device 300 may output graphical content for display at both a presence-sensitive display 301 coupled to computing device 300 over communication channel 302A and a display of one or more remote devices. In these examples, the graphical content may be displayed at each respective device substantially simultaneously. For example, some delay may be introduced by the communication delay to transmit data including graphical content to a remote device. In some examples, the graphical content generated by computing device 300 and the output displayed at presence-sensitive display 301 may be different than the graphical content display output displayed at one or more remote devices.
In some examples, computing device 300 may be operably coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in fig. 3 using direct device communication 318. Direct device communication 318 may include communications through which computing device 300 directly sends and receives data with remote devices using wired or wireless communication. That is, in some examples of direct device communication 318, data sent by computing device 300 may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at a remote device, and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication 318 may includecomputing device 300 via communication links 316A-316E. In some examples, communication links 316A-316E may be used
In accordance with techniques of this disclosure, computing device 300 may be operable to output a graphical alert at any one or more of presence- sensitive displays 324, 328, 332, and/or 336 as a notification of a recommended physical activity to be performed by a user of computing device 300. In some examples, the computing device 100 may output a notification recommending physical activity by outputting the notification at the attachment mechanism 334 (e.g., a wearable device) for subsequent output. For example, computing device 300 may output graphical, tactile, and/or audible alerts over an external network at any one or more of projector 320, screen 322, device 326, device 330, and/or attachment mechanism 334. In some examples, in addition to, or in contrast to, outputting graphical notifications at presence-sensitive display 328 of mobile device 326, attachment mechanism 334 may output graphical notifications at presence-sensitive display 336.
In some examples, if the user begins to move and the computing device 300 determines that the user is performing the recommended physical activity, the computing device 300 may also output a subsequent notification congratulating the user. For example, a subsequent notification may congratulate the user to move or complete the workout.
Fig. 4 and 5 are flowcharts illustrating example operations of an example computing device configured to recommend that a user of the computing device perform a physical activity at an appropriate time in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure. The processes in fig. 4 and 5 may each be implemented by one or more processors of a computing device, such as computing device 110 of fig. 1 and/or computing device 210 of fig. 2. In some examples, the process steps of fig. 4 and 5 may be repeated, omitted, and/or performed in any order. For purposes of illustration, fig. 4 and 5 are described below within the context of computing device 110 of fig. 2.
In the example of fig. 4, computing device 210 may obtain (400) an indication of movement associated with the computing device. For example, health module 220 may occasionally receive accelerometer information from sensor component 214.
Computing device 210 may determine (410) whether the movement satisfies an activity threshold that indicates that a user of the computing device begins to be in a physically active state. For example, health module 220 may determine whether the accelerometer information indicates that the user has been sitting almost sedentary or slightly active for a persistent period of time (e.g., one and a half hours).
In response to determining (420) that the movement does not satisfy (e.g., is less than, or alternatively is greater than or equal to) the activity threshold, computing device 210 may determine (430) a recommended physical activity to perform by the user based at least in part on contextual information associated with computing device 210. For example, health module 220 may infer that under-movement indicates that the user has been seated for a sustained period of time and determine that the user should stand or perform a suggested number of squats based on exercise rule data store 280C. Otherwise, in response to determining (420) that the movement satisfies the activity threshold, computing device 210 may forgo recommending any other physical activity based on the health module 220 determining that the movement information indicates that the user has physically activated.
In some examples, computing device 210 may obtain contextual information for determining recommended physical activities from a remote system, such as information server system 160. For example, computing device 210 may send sensor information obtained by one or more sensor components 214 to a remote system and receive contextual information associated with the computing device from the remote system in response to sending the sensor information to the remote system. Contextual information received from the remote system may be based at least in part on the sensor information. For example, contextual information received from information server system 160 may include contextual information that reflects not only sensor information (e.g., location, movement, speed, etc.) but also other data in the network (e.g., local weather).
In some examples, computing device 210 may determine the recommended physical activity to be performed by the user by sending, by the computing device to the remote system, at least a portion of the contextual information associated with the computing device and receiving, by the computing device from the remote system, the recommended physical activity. The recommended physical activity received from the remote system may be based, at least in part, on contextual information associated with the computing device, and may also be based, at least in part, on other information associated with the user. For example, computing device 210 may query information server system 160 for recommended physical activities. Information server system 160 may determine recommended physical activities that may be appropriate for execution given a particular context, and may also be personalized for the user (e.g., based on the user's health status, health goals, and other information). For example, if it is determined that the user is generally physically healthy, the information server system 160 may recommend more vigorous physical activity for a particular context, and if it is determined that the user has high blood pressure, is overweight, or has some other health condition, the information server system 160 may recommend less vigorous physical activity for a particular context.
Computing device 210 may determine (440) a current activity associated with the user based on the contextual information. For example, health module 220 may determine that the user is playing an electronic game executing at computing device 210 at the current time based on application data stored at data store 280D or other information received from application module 224.
Computing device 210 may determine (450) whether a likelihood that the recommended physical activity may be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold. For example, using one or more exercise rules at data store 280C, health module 220 may determine that the game does not require extreme attention and/or that the user may be likely to stand while playing the electronic game without interfering with game play.
In response to determining (460) that the likelihood satisfies the probability threshold, computing device 210 may output (470) a notification recommending physical activity. For example, health module 220 may cause PSD212 to present a graphical alert as a notification that the user should attempt to stand or crouch up in the field for one or two minutes while playing a game, thereby becoming more active.
In this manner, in response to determining that the notification and/or physical activity will not interfere with the current activity being performed by the user, computing device 210 may output a notification recommending physical activity. Conversely, in response to determining that the notification and/or physical activity may interfere with the current activity being performed by the user, computing device 210 may delay the output of the notification until a subsequent time.
For example, consider the example of FIG. 5. Computing device 210 may obtain (500) an indication of movement associated with computing device 210. For example, health module 220 may receive sensor information (e.g., continuous accelerometer movement coupled with large/fast GPS location changes) from sensor component 214.
Computing device 210 may determine (505) whether the movement satisfies an inactivity threshold that indicates that a user of computing device 210 is in a physically active state. For example, health module 220 may compare sensor information received from sensor component 214 to movement patterns typically observed when a user of computing device 210 is sitting, rather than being particularly active.
In response to determining (510) that the movement satisfies the inactivity threshold, computing device 210 may forgo recommending any other physical activity and delay (540) for a period of time before performing the process of fig. 5 again. For example, health module 220 may determine that the sensor information received from sensor component 214 corresponds to a pattern of movement typically observed when a user of computing device 210 is not sitting, but is performing physical activity.
Conversely, in response to determining (510) that the movement does not satisfy the activity threshold, computing device 210 may determine (515) a recommended physical activity to perform by the user based on contextual information associated with computing device 210. For example, based on sensor information obtained from sensor component 214, health module 220 may infer that the sensor information corresponds to a pattern of movement typically observed while a user of computing device 210 is sitting. Health module 220 may receive information from context module 162 of information server system 160 that the current context of computing device 210 corresponds to the interior of a mobile vehicle (e.g., train, bus, automobile, other vehicle). Based on exercise rule data store 280C, health module 220 may determine one or more recommended exercises to be performed by the user (e.g., standing, touching the toes, stretching, performing a suggested number of squats, or performing some other physical activity) while within the mobile vehicle.
In some examples, the health module 220 may query a driving application as one of the application modules 124. The driving application may interface with an automobile system that provides contextual information about the state of the automobile system back to the driving application. The driving application may provide application data (e.g., an indication) to the health module 220 that instructs the computing device 210 to synchronize with, dock at, or otherwise be inside the automobile vehicle.
Computing device 210 may determine (520) a current activity associated with the user based on the contextual information. For example, health module 220 may provide the current context of computing device 210 to activity tracking module 272 and, in response, receive data indicative of activities that the user may be performing while moving the interior of the vehicle. For example, activity tracking module 272 may infer that the user is driving a moving vehicle based on this context and other contextual information stored at data store 280B.
Computing device 210 may determine 525 whether a likelihood that the recommended physical activity may be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold. For example, fitness module 220 may feed the current activity and recommended workouts as inputs to one or more workout rules 280C to determine whether any of the recommended workouts may be performed while driving the moving vehicle. Health module 220 may receive as output from one or more exercise rules 280C a probability, score, or other indication of whether each of the recommended exercises may be performed concurrently with the current activity.
In response to determining that no exercise is compatible with the current activity (e.g., the exercise cannot be safely performed while driving a moving vehicle), computing device 210 may delay (535) the output of the notification of the recommended physical activity to be performed by the user and delay (540) the re-running of the process of fig. 5 for a period of time. For example, the wellness module 220 may enter recommended physical activities into the activity queue, and the wellness module 220 may retrieve (surface) at a later time after re-running steps 500 and 525.
Conversely, in response to determining (460) that one or more of the exercises are compatible with the current activity, computing device 210 may output (545) a notification recommending physical activity. For example, the health module 220 may occasionally request that the driving application update the operating state of the automobile to determine whether the user is still driving a moving vehicle. Based on the updated information received from the driving application, the health module 220 may rely on the activity tracking module 124 to determine that the computing device 210 is no longer synchronized with, parked at, or otherwise inside the automobile vehicle, and that the user is therefore not driving a moving vehicle. In response to determining that the user is no longer driving, health module 220 may cause PSD212 to output a graphical indication of a notification (e.g., to remind the user to perform some exercise now because he or she is no longer driving).
In some examples, computing device 210 may determine (550) that the recommended physical activity was performed or not performed after outputting the notification and, in response, update the models and rules used by computing device 210 accordingly. For example, health module 220 may analyze sensor information obtained from sensor component 214 after causing PSD212 to output the notification. In response to determining that the sensor information corresponds to a movement pattern typically observed when the user performs the recommended workout, health module 220 may increase (560) a likelihood that the machine learning system provides a particular context. Conversely, in response to determining that the sensor information does not correspond to a movement pattern typically observed when the user performed the recommended workout, health module 220 may reduce (555) the likelihood that the machine learning system provides the particular context.
In some examples, computing device 210 may update the probability threshold as a way to update the model and rules. For example, health module 220 may analyze sensor information obtained from sensor component 214 after causing PSD212 to output the notification. In response to determining that the sensor information corresponds to a movement pattern typically observed when the user performs the recommended workout, health module 220 may reduce a probability threshold that the machine learning system provides the particular context, thereby making it more likely that the workout will be recommended in the future for the particular context. Conversely, in response to determining that the sensor information does not correspond to a movement pattern typically observed when the user performs the recommended workout, health module 220 may increase a probability threshold that the machine learning system provides the particular context, such that it is unlikely that the workout will be recommended in the future for the particular context.
By using contextual cues such as the user's current activity, calendar, and other contextual information, the techniques of this disclosure may enable the computing device to send or suppress notifications until the computing device is confident that the user is able to move around and perform the recommended physical activity. For example, if a calendar associated with the user indicates that he or she is in a meeting, the user may ignore notifications of standing up and walking around. Using the calendar, the device may determine when the meeting is finished, and if there is a gap in the user's calendar between two events, the device may output a notification that suggests the user to take advantage of the time between events to get some additional exercise or movement.
When the language to be used in the incentive notice is determined, the computing device may process the user's previous health data for each time frame. By comparing the activity on the current day to the activity on the previous day or the same day of the previous week, the weekly average, or the monthly average, the device may infer a health goal of the user or otherwise determine how much activity the user is recommended to perform during the continuous notification.
Clause 1. a method, comprising: obtaining, by a computing device, an indication of movement associated with the computing device; and in response to determining that the movement does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that a user of the computing device is in a physically active state: determining, by the computing device, a recommended physical activity for the user to perform based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device; determining, by the computing device, a current activity associated with the user based at least in part on contextual information; and in response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold, outputting, by the computing device, a notification of the recommended physical activity.
Clause 2. the method of clause 1, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on a health goal associated with the user.
Clause 3. the method of any of clauses 1-2, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on historical activity information associated with the user.
Clause 4. the method of any of clauses 1-3, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on the current activity.
Clause 5. the method of any one of clauses 1-4, further comprising: refraining from outputting, by the computing device, the notification of the recommended physical activity in response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity does not satisfy the probability threshold.
Clause 6. the method of clause 5, further comprising: after refraining from outputting the notification, re-running the method according to clause 1 after a predetermined period of time.
Clause 7. the method of any of clauses 1-6, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device includes sensor data obtained from one or more sensors of the computing device.
The method of any of clauses 1-7, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device includes application data obtained from one or more applications executing at the computing device.
Clause 9. the method of any of clauses 1-8, wherein determining the current activity comprises: transmitting, by the computing device, at least a portion of the contextual information associated with the computing device to a remote activity tracking system; querying, by the computing device, the remote activity tracking system for an indication of the current activity; and receiving, by the computing device, the indication of the current activity from the remote activity tracking system.
Clause 10. the method of clause 9, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on the current activity.
Clause 11. the method of any of clauses 1-10, wherein outputting the notification of the recommended physical activity comprises outputting, by the computing device, the notification for subsequent output on a wearable device.
Clause 12. the method of any of clauses 1-11, wherein the notification comprises at least one of: graphical alerts, tactile alerts, or audible alerts.
Clause 13. the method of any one of clauses 1-12, further comprising: transmitting, by the computing device, sensor information acquired by one or more sensors of the computing device to a remote system; and receiving, by the computing device from the remote system, the contextual information associated with the computing device in response to sending the sensor information to the remote system, wherein the contextual information received from the remote system is based at least in part on the sensor information.
Clause 14. the method of any of clauses 1-13, wherein determining the recommended physical activity for the user to perform comprises: transmitting, by the computing device, at least a portion of contextual information associated with the computing device to a remote system; and receiving, by the computing device, the recommended physical activity from the remote system, wherein the recommended physical activity received from the remote system is based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device and further based at least in part on other information associated with the user.
Clause 15. a computing device, the computing device comprising: at least one sensor component configured to obtain sensor information indicative of movement associated with the computing device; at least one processor; at least one module operable by the at least one processor to: in response to determining that the movement associated with the computing device does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that a user of the computing device is in a physically active state: determining a recommended physical activity to perform by the user based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device; determining a current activity associated with the user based at least in part on contextual information; and in response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold, outputting a notification of the recommended physical activity.
The computing device of clause 16, the computing device of clause 15, wherein the at least one module is further operable by the at least one processor to refrain from outputting the notification of the recommended physical activity in response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity does not satisfy the probability threshold.
The computing device of any of clauses 15-16, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device comprises at least one of: other sensor information obtained from the at least one sensor component, application data obtained from one or more applications executing at the computing device, or calendar information associated with the user of the computing device.
A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, configure at least one processor of the computing device to: obtaining an indication of movement associated with the computing device; in response to determining that the movement does not satisfy an activity threshold indicating that a user of the computing device is in a physically active state: determining a recommended physical activity to perform by the user based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device; determining a current activity associated with the user based at least in part on contextual information; and in response to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold, outputting a notification of the recommended physical activity.
The computer-readable storage medium of clause 18, wherein the instructions, when executed, further configure the at least one processor to determine the recommended physical activity based at least in part on at least one of: a health goal associated with the user, historical activity information associated with the user, or a current activity.
Clause 20 the computer-readable storage medium of any of clauses 18-19, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device comprises at least one of: sensor data obtained from one or more sensors of the computing device, application data obtained from one or more applications executing at the computing device, or calendar information associated with the user of the computing device.
Clause 21. a system comprising means for performing any of the methods of clauses 1-14.
Clause 22. a computing device comprising means for performing any of the methods of clauses 1-14.
Clause 23. the computing device of clause 15 further comprises means for performing any of the methods of clauses 1-14.
In one or more examples, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium and executed by a hardware-based processing unit. Computer-readable media may include computer-readable storage media corresponding to tangible media, such as data storage media, or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another, such as according to a communication protocol. In this manner, the computer-readable medium may generally correspond to (1) a non-transitory tangible computer-readable storage medium or (2) a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. A data storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions, code and/or data structures for implementing the techniques described in this disclosure. The computer program product may include a computer-readable medium.
By way of example, and not limitation, such computer-readable storage media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, flash memory, or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the instructions are transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair, DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood, however, that computer-readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections, carrier waves, signals, or other transitory media, but instead refer to non-transitory tangible storage media. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes Compact Disc (CD), laser disc, optical disc, Digital Versatile Disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer-readable media.
The instructions may be executed by one or more processors, such as one or more Digital Signal Processors (DSPs), general purpose microprocessors, Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), field programmable logic arrays (FPGAs), or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Thus, the term "processor," as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementing the techniques described herein. In addition, in some aspects, the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and/or software modules. In addition, these techniques may be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.
The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of apparatuses or devices, including wireless handsets, Integrated Circuits (ICs), or sets of ICs (e.g., chipsets). Various components, modules, or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques, but do not necessarily require implementation by different hardware units. Rather, as noted above, the various units may be combined in hardware units, or provided by a collection of cooperating hardware units including one or more processors as noted above, in conjunction with appropriate software and/or firmware.
Various examples have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
Claims (14)
1. A method for providing recommended physical activities, the method comprising:
obtaining, by a computing device, an indication of movement associated with the computing device while a user of the computing device is performing a current activity;
determining whether the movement satisfies an activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in a physically active state; and
in response to determining that the movement does not satisfy the activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in the physically active state:
determining, by the computing device, based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device that includes the indication of movement, a recommended physical activity for execution by the user to cause the user to be in the physical activity state;
determining, by the computing device, the current activity associated with the user based at least in part on the contextual information;
determining, using a machine learning model, a likelihood that the user is able to perform the recommended physical activity concurrently with the current activity without interfering with the current activity;
responsive to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity does not satisfy a probability threshold, suppressing, by the computing device, output of a notification of the recommended physical activity until a subsequent time when the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold; and
in response to outputting the notification of the recommended physical activity at the subsequent time, updating, by the computing device, the machine learning model based on whether the recommended physical activity was performed after outputting the notification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on a fitness goal associated with the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on historical activity information associated with the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommended physical activity is further determined based at least in part on the current activity.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein suppressing output of the notification comprises: refraining from outputting, by the computing device, the notification of the recommended physical activity.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
re-running the method of claim 1 after a predetermined period of time in response to refraining from outputting the notification.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device comprises sensor data obtained from one or more sensors of the computing device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual information associated with the computing device comprises application data obtained from one or more applications executing at the computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the current activity comprises:
transmitting, by the computing device, at least a portion of the contextual information associated with the computing device to a remote activity tracking system;
querying, by the computing device, the remote activity tracking system for an indication of the current activity; and
receiving, by the computing device, the indication of the current activity from the remote activity tracking system.
10. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: outputting the notification of the recommended physical activity for subsequent output at a wearable device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification comprises at least one of: graphical alerts, tactile alerts, and audible alerts.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
transmitting, by the computing device, sensor information obtained by one or more sensors of the computing device to a remote system; and
receiving, by the computing device, the contextual information associated with the computing device from the remote system, wherein the contextual information received from the remote system is based at least in part on the sensor information.
13. A computing device for providing recommended physical activities, comprising:
at least one sensor component configured to obtain sensor information indicative of movement associated with the computing device while a user of the computing device is performing a current activity; and
at least one processor configured to:
determining whether the movement satisfies an activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in a physically active state;
in response to determining that the movement associated with the computing device does not satisfy the activity threshold indicating that the user of the computing device is in the physically active state;
determining, based at least in part on contextual information associated with the computing device that includes the indication of movement, a recommended physical activity for execution by the user to cause the user to be in the physical activity state;
determining the current activity associated with the user based at least in part on the contextual information;
determining, using a machine learning model, a likelihood that the user is able to perform the recommended physical activity concurrently with the current activity without interfering with the current activity;
responsive to determining that the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity does not satisfy a probability threshold, refraining from outputting a notification of the recommended physical activity until a subsequent time when the likelihood that the recommended physical activity can be performed concurrently with the current activity satisfies a probability threshold; and
in response to outputting the notification of the recommended physical activity at the subsequent time, updating the machine learning model based on whether the recommended physical activity was performed after outputting the notification.
14. A system for providing recommended physical activities, the system comprising means for performing any of the methods of claims 1-12.
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201562193685P | 2015-07-17 | 2015-07-17 | |
US62/193,685 | 2015-07-17 | ||
US14/812,379 US20170017776A1 (en) | 2015-07-17 | 2015-07-29 | Context-aware system for providing fitness information |
US14/812,379 | 2015-07-29 | ||
PCT/US2016/037550 WO2017014869A1 (en) | 2015-07-17 | 2016-06-15 | Context-aware system for providing fitness information |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN107636768A CN107636768A (en) | 2018-01-26 |
CN107636768B true CN107636768B (en) | 2021-08-10 |
Family
ID=57776131
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201680027504.XA Active CN107636768B (en) | 2015-07-17 | 2016-06-15 | Context-aware system for providing health information |
Country Status (4)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (1) | US20170017776A1 (en) |
EP (2) | EP4047613A1 (en) |
CN (1) | CN107636768B (en) |
WO (1) | WO2017014869A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (12)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US9792409B2 (en) * | 2015-03-13 | 2017-10-17 | Kathryn A. Wernow | Communicative water bottle and system thereof |
US20170039480A1 (en) * | 2015-08-06 | 2017-02-09 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Workout Pattern Detection |
US9782126B2 (en) * | 2015-12-07 | 2017-10-10 | Pebble Technology, Corp. | System for providing insightful lifestyle notifications |
US20170278034A1 (en) * | 2016-03-24 | 2017-09-28 | International Business Machines Corporation | Creating alternative wellness activities based on tracked worker activity |
US10790048B2 (en) * | 2016-08-26 | 2020-09-29 | International Business Machines Corporation | Patient treatment recommendations based on medical records and exogenous information |
US10049572B2 (en) * | 2016-11-11 | 2018-08-14 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Mass transit-based people traffic sensing and control |
JP2018078998A (en) * | 2016-11-15 | 2018-05-24 | ソニー株式会社 | Information processing device and program |
US10945674B2 (en) * | 2017-12-13 | 2021-03-16 | Google Llc | Methods, systems, and media for predicting sensor measurement quality |
US10942833B2 (en) * | 2019-01-11 | 2021-03-09 | International Business Machines Corporation | Monitoring routines and providing reminders |
DE102019132456A1 (en) * | 2019-11-29 | 2021-06-02 | Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft | Device and method for outputting a personalized fitness suggestion in a motor vehicle |
WO2022161939A1 (en) * | 2021-01-28 | 2022-08-04 | Biotronik Se & Co. Kg | Computer implemented method and system for recommending a physical activity using physiological data of a person |
US11709553B2 (en) * | 2021-02-25 | 2023-07-25 | International Business Machines Corporation | Automated prediction of a location of an object using machine learning |
Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN101609598A (en) * | 2009-07-15 | 2009-12-23 | 无锡爱睿芯电子有限公司 | Health-reminding device and method based on the GPS location |
CN201535945U (en) * | 2009-07-15 | 2010-07-28 | 无锡爱睿芯电子有限公司 | Health alarm device |
CN102804238A (en) * | 2011-12-15 | 2012-11-28 | 北京英福生科技有限公司 | Exercise reminding device and system |
WO2014093856A1 (en) * | 2012-12-13 | 2014-06-19 | Nike International Ltd. | Monitoring fitness using a mobile device |
CN104737082A (en) * | 2012-08-17 | 2015-06-24 | 电子湾有限公司 | Recommendations based on wearable sensors |
Family Cites Families (2)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US8085153B2 (en) * | 2001-08-08 | 2011-12-27 | O'connor Gerard | Activity monitoring device |
US8965541B2 (en) * | 2011-11-03 | 2015-02-24 | International Business Machines Corporation | Exercise-integrated workstation |
-
2015
- 2015-07-29 US US14/812,379 patent/US20170017776A1/en not_active Abandoned
-
2016
- 2016-06-15 CN CN201680027504.XA patent/CN107636768B/en active Active
- 2016-06-15 EP EP22158350.3A patent/EP4047613A1/en active Pending
- 2016-06-15 EP EP16735761.5A patent/EP3326090B1/en active Active
- 2016-06-15 WO PCT/US2016/037550 patent/WO2017014869A1/en unknown
Patent Citations (5)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN101609598A (en) * | 2009-07-15 | 2009-12-23 | 无锡爱睿芯电子有限公司 | Health-reminding device and method based on the GPS location |
CN201535945U (en) * | 2009-07-15 | 2010-07-28 | 无锡爱睿芯电子有限公司 | Health alarm device |
CN102804238A (en) * | 2011-12-15 | 2012-11-28 | 北京英福生科技有限公司 | Exercise reminding device and system |
CN104737082A (en) * | 2012-08-17 | 2015-06-24 | 电子湾有限公司 | Recommendations based on wearable sensors |
WO2014093856A1 (en) * | 2012-12-13 | 2014-06-19 | Nike International Ltd. | Monitoring fitness using a mobile device |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
US20170017776A1 (en) | 2017-01-19 |
WO2017014869A1 (en) | 2017-01-26 |
EP4047613A1 (en) | 2022-08-24 |
EP3326090B1 (en) | 2022-04-13 |
CN107636768A (en) | 2018-01-26 |
EP3326090A1 (en) | 2018-05-30 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN107636768B (en) | Context-aware system for providing health information | |
US10469430B2 (en) | Predictive forwarding of notification data | |
US10010754B2 (en) | Recommended modes of transportation for achieving fitness goals | |
US9766959B2 (en) | Determining user response to notifications based on a physiological parameter | |
US10416740B2 (en) | Upsampling sensors to auto-detect a fitness activity | |
WO2018213323A1 (en) | Cross-device handoffs | |
CN108073382A (en) | The virtual assistant identification of neighbouring computing device | |
EP3638108B1 (en) | Sleep monitoring from implicitly collected computer interactions | |
KR102554384B1 (en) | Determining relevant information based on third-party information and user interactions | |
CN110460715A (en) | For operating the method, equipment and medium of digital assistants | |
US11875274B1 (en) | Coherency detection and information management system | |
US11182057B2 (en) | User simulation for model initialization | |
US11321328B2 (en) | System and method for customized user content | |
Balic | Evaluating Conversational User Interfaces when Mobil | |
US10660039B1 (en) | Adaptive output of indications of notification data | |
WO2023056092A1 (en) | Biometric and user-interaction analysis and recommendation system | |
NL1041613B1 (en) | Upsampling sensors to auto-detect a fitness activity. |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
PB01 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |