CN104981792B - Summarize interaction for content item - Google Patents
Summarize interaction for content item Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- CN104981792B CN104981792B CN201380067096.7A CN201380067096A CN104981792B CN 104981792 B CN104981792 B CN 104981792B CN 201380067096 A CN201380067096 A CN 201380067096A CN 104981792 B CN104981792 B CN 104981792B
- Authority
- CN
- China
- Prior art keywords
- content
- comment
- data item
- item
- user
- Prior art date
- Legal status (The legal status is an assumption and is not a legal conclusion. Google has not performed a legal analysis and makes no representation as to the accuracy of the status listed.)
- Active
Links
Classifications
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L51/00—User-to-user messaging in packet-switching networks, transmitted according to store-and-forward or real-time protocols, e.g. e-mail
- H04L51/21—Monitoring or handling of messages
- H04L51/224—Monitoring or handling of messages providing notification on incoming messages, e.g. pushed notifications of received messages
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q10/00—Administration; Management
- G06Q10/10—Office automation; Time management
- G06Q10/107—Computer-aided management of electronic mailing [e-mailing]
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q50/00—Systems or methods specially adapted for specific business sectors, e.g. utilities or tourism
- G06Q50/01—Social networking
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F2221/00—Indexing scheme relating to security arrangements for protecting computers, components thereof, programs or data against unauthorised activity
- G06F2221/21—Indexing scheme relating to G06F21/00 and subgroups addressing additional information or applications relating to security arrangements for protecting computers, components thereof, programs or data against unauthorised activity
- G06F2221/2141—Access rights, e.g. capability lists, access control lists, access tables, access matrices
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q10/00—Administration; Management
- G06Q10/10—Office automation; Time management
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L51/00—User-to-user messaging in packet-switching networks, transmitted according to store-and-forward or real-time protocols, e.g. e-mail
- H04L51/21—Monitoring or handling of messages
- H04L51/212—Monitoring or handling of messages using filtering or selective blocking
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L51/00—User-to-user messaging in packet-switching networks, transmitted according to store-and-forward or real-time protocols, e.g. e-mail
- H04L51/52—User-to-user messaging in packet-switching networks, transmitted according to store-and-forward or real-time protocols, e.g. e-mail for supporting social networking services
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L63/00—Network architectures or network communication protocols for network security
- H04L63/10—Network architectures or network communication protocols for network security for controlling access to devices or network resources
- H04L63/101—Access control lists [ACL]
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L65/00—Network arrangements, protocols or services for supporting real-time applications in data packet communication
- H04L65/40—Support for services or applications
- H04L65/403—Arrangements for multi-party communication, e.g. for conferences
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L67/00—Network arrangements or protocols for supporting network services or applications
- H04L67/01—Protocols
- H04L67/02—Protocols based on web technology, e.g. hypertext transfer protocol [HTTP]
-
- H—ELECTRICITY
- H04—ELECTRIC COMMUNICATION TECHNIQUE
- H04L—TRANSMISSION OF DIGITAL INFORMATION, e.g. TELEGRAPHIC COMMUNICATION
- H04L67/00—Network arrangements or protocols for supporting network services or applications
- H04L67/50—Network services
- H04L67/52—Network services specially adapted for the location of the user terminal
Abstract
It receives for generating the first publication data item so as to the request shown in first position, which includes the reference to the content item for being located at the second position.Based on the reference to content item, content designator associated with the content item is determined.The content designator is associated with the publication data item.One or more publication data item are retrieved based on the content designator and show that the one or more issues data item in the second position, and one or more publication data item includes the first publication data item.Notified tag associated with the content item is read in access by file that the reference to content item is identified, which identifies the destination that can be sent to it notice.It sends and notifies to the destination, which identifies the publication data item.
Description
Technical field
The present invention relates to the methods, system and computer program for summarizing comment across a variety of attributes.
Background technique
In recent years, the development of internet has been that the mode that user can interact and interact with each other with content is brought
Huge variation.Another example is comment mechanism that can be widely available in many internet assets.For given interconnection
Web page, user can create and leave comment, which is then able to be accessed other user institutes of identical internet page
See.
Summary of the invention
Embodiment of the present disclosure provides method, system and the computer journey for the comment display across a variety of properties
Sequence.It should be appreciated that the disclosure can be implemented in many ways, such as processing, device, system, equipment or calculating
Method on machine readable medium.Several embodiments of the disclosure are described below.
According to some embodiment there is provided a kind of method, including following methods operate：It receives for generating the first publication
For data item so as to the request shown in first position, which includes drawing to the content item for being located at the second position
With；Based on the reference to content item, content designator associated with the content item is determined；By the content designator and the publication
Data item is associated；Based on the content designator retrieve one or more publication data item and the second position show this one
A or multiple publication data item, one or more publication data item include the first publication data item.
In one embodiment, retrieve the publication data item include search for multiple publication data item with identify with
Associated content designator publication data item.
In one embodiment, determine that content designator includes executing the lookup of the reference to content item to identify phase
Corresponding standardization ID.
It in one embodiment, is the uniform resource locator (URL) of the content item to the reference of content item；And it should
Content designator is serial data.
In one embodiment, content designator associated with content item is the URL of the content item.
In one embodiment, the content item is from by video, article, image, audio file, text items, webpage, webpage
Set selects in group composed by the combination of any two or more in them.
In one embodiment, retrieval is one or more issues data item and shows that the one or more issues data
Item is in response to the request for accessing the second position.In one embodiment, this method further comprises that access generates use
In the social graph of the first user of the request for accessing the second position；And preferentially display retrieved by first user
Social graph in secondary user generate publication data item in selected publication data item.
In one embodiment, this method further comprises that the sanctions status of new publication data item is arranged so as to second
Position is shown；And wherein the one or more publication data item of retrieval include identifying the approval of one or more publication data item
State.
In one embodiment, which is defined by the first webpage；And the second position is by the second webpage
It is defined.
In another embodiment, it provides a method, including following methods operation：It receives for generating the first hair
Cloth data item is to be associated with the request that first content item is shown；Determine content designator associated with the first content item,
The content designator is also associated with the second content item；The content designator is associated with publication data item；In response to being used for
Access the request of second content item, based on the one or more publication data item of content designator retrieval and by this or
Multiple publication data item are associated with second content item and show, it includes the first publication data which, which issues data item,
?.
In one embodiment, retrieval publication data item includes searching for multiple publication data item to have therewith to identify
The publication data item of associated content designator.
In one embodiment, determine that the content designator includes identifying standardization associated with first content item
ID。
In one embodiment, which is serial data.
In one embodiment, which is URL.
In one embodiment, the first content item or the second content item from by video, article, image, audio file,
It text items or is selected in group composed by the combination of any two or more in them.
In one embodiment, this method further comprises accessing the request generated for accessing second content item
The social graph of first user；And the secondary user in the social graph by first user that preferentially display is retrieved is raw
At publication data item in selected publication data item.
In one embodiment, this method further comprises that the sanctions status of new data item is arranged to be associated with second
Content item is shown；And wherein the one or more publication data item of retrieval include identifying that the one or more issues data item
Sanctions status.
In one embodiment, first content item defines on the first webpage；And second content item is in the second net
It is defined on page.
In another embodiment, it provides a kind of readable with the tangible computer for embodying program instruction thereon
Medium, the program instruction include：It is used to generate first for receiving and issues data item so as to the request that shows in first position
Program instruction, the first publication data item include the reference to the content item for being located at the second position；For based on to content item
Reference determines the program instruction of content designator associated with the content item；For by the content designator and the publication data
The associated program instruction of item；For based on the one or more publication data item of content designator retrieval and in the second
The program instruction for showing one or more publication data item is set, one or more publication data item includes the first publication number
According to item.
In one embodiment, retrieve the publication data item include search for multiple publication data item with identify with
Associated content designator publication data item.
In one embodiment, determine that content designator includes executing the lookup of the reference to content item to identify phase
Corresponding standardization ID.
It in one embodiment, is the uniform resource locator (URL) of the content item to the reference of content item；And it should
Content designator is serial data.
In one embodiment, content designator associated with content item is the URL of the content item.
In another embodiment, it provides a method, including following methods operation：Receive the society in the first user
It hands over for generating the request of publication data item on Webpage, which includes to the content item being located in content page
Reference；By file that the reference to content item is identified to read notified tag associated with the content item, this is logical for access
Know that tag recognition can be sent to it the destination of notice；It sends and notifies to the destination, which identifies the publication data item.
In one embodiment, which does not share shared domain with content page.
In one embodiment, which is marked by the user on e-mail address, user name or social networks
The one or more known in symbol is defined.
In one embodiment, the publication data item is identified as open item for generating the request of publication content item；
And it sends the push-notification-answer and is detected as open item in the publication data item.
In one embodiment, the notice provide to audit interface (moderation interface) access so as to
Ratify or disapprove the publication data item to show in content page.
It in one embodiment, is URL to the reference of content item.
In one embodiment, which selects from image, video, audio or text.
In one embodiment, this method further comprises that the publication data item is shown in content page.
In another embodiment, it provides a method, comprises the following methods：It receives from the first user's
For generating publication data item so as to the request shown on the first property, which includes on the second property
Content item reference；The institute to be notified when the content item is shared in the publication data item is identified based on the request
The person of having, wherein identifying that the owner is included in registration table executes lookup, the institute which defines the reference and identified
Association between the person of having；It generates and notifies for the owner, which identifies the publication data item.
In one embodiment, which is defined by social networks；And second property is not by social activity
Network is defined.
In one embodiment, which is defined by the first webpage；Second property is determined by the second webpage
Justice；And first webpage and the second webpage do not share shared domain.
It in one embodiment, is URL to the reference of content item.
In one embodiment, the identification owner includes the address that identification is sent to it the owner of notice.
In one embodiment, generating the notice includes that email notification or all to this is sent to the owner
Person sends one of mobile sending out notice or a variety of.
In one embodiment, which selects from image, video, audio or text.
In one embodiment, which provides the access to audit interface to ratify or disapprove the publication data
Item is shown on the second property.
In another embodiment, it provides a kind of with the non-transitory computer for embodying program instruction thereon
Readable medium, including：For receiving in the social network page of the first user for generating the journey of the request of publication data item
Sequence instruction, the publication data item include the reference to the content item being located in content page；For accessing by drawing to content item
Read the program instruction of notified tag associated with the content item with the file identified, notified tag identification can be to
Its destination for sending notice；With the program instruction for sending notice to the destination, which identifies the publication data item.
In one embodiment, which does not share shared domain with content page.
In one embodiment, which is defined by the one or more in e-mail address or user name.
In one embodiment, the publication data item is identified as open item for generating the request of publication content item；
And it sends the push-notification-answer and is detected as open item in the publication data item.
In one embodiment, which provides the access to audit interface to ratify or disapprove the publication data
Item is shown in content page.
It in one embodiment, is URL to the reference of content item.
In one embodiment, which selects from image, video, audio or text.
In one embodiment, which further comprises for showing in content page
Show the program instruction of the publication data item.
Embodiment there is provided a kind of methods according to some, including：It receives in first position for generating the first publication number
According to the request of item；Presentation in the second position the first publication data item is provided；It receives in the second position for generating the second hair
The request of cloth data item, the second publication data item is as the reply for the first publication data item；Identification about this second
Issue the destination of the notice of data item；It is associated with the destination and the notice of identification the second publication data item, the notice is provided
It is associated with first position；Wherein this method is as performed by one or more processors.
In some embodiments, which is defined by social network page；Wherein the second position is by content
The page is defined；And wherein the social network page does not share shared domain with content page.
In some embodiments, which is defined by content page；Wherein the second position is by social networks
The page is defined；And wherein the content page does not share shared domain with social network page.
In some embodiments, the first publication data item is presented in the second position includes that access is received from it for generating
First issues the social graph of the first user of the request of data item, and second user is identified as to the socialgram of the first user
Member in spectrum, the second user are identified as accessing the second position.
In some embodiments, which is defined by the one or more in Email, private message or warning.
In some embodiments, which generates in the reply for third publication data item, should
Third publication data item is generated in the second position originally and presents in first position.
In some embodiments, which includes being directed toward the link of the second publication data item presented in first position.
In some embodiments, identify that with the destination of the first associated notice of publication data item include access and the
The one publication associated notified tag of data item.
In some embodiments, which provides the access to audit interface to ratify or refuse the second publication data
Item is shown in first position.
In some embodiments, when second publication data item be rejected when, this second publication data item therefore in addition to
It is not carried out in first position except when the user of access first position is identified as the author of the second publication data item
Display.
In some embodiments, the first position or the second position define service.
In some embodiments, which is the direct reply for the first publication data item.
In some embodiments, which is first position.
In some embodiments, which is defined as sending from first position.
In some embodiments, for generate first publication data item request from be triggered with by second application open
The first application definition.
Embodiment there is provided a kind of methods according to some, including：By the user of access item be identified as audit side or
Non- audit side；Identification comment, the comment are associated with the content item；Determine the legitimacy score of the comment；When the conjunction of the comment
Method score fall into first within the scope of when the comment be provided shown to be associated with the content item；When the legitimacy of the comment obtains
When dividing within the scope of falling into second, it is aobvious to be associated with the content item that the comment is provided when the user is identified as the side of audit
Show；The comment is excluded when the legitimacy score of the comment is fallen within the scope of third；Wherein this method is by one or more
It manages performed by device.
In some embodiments, the comment is provided when the user is identified as the side of audit to be associated with the content item
Display includes providing the interface shown for ratifying or refusing the comment.
In some embodiments, when comment is rejected display, then when the user is identified as the author of the comment
The comment is provided to show to be associated with content item.
In some embodiments, identify that the user further comprises determining whether the user is forbidden user,
In when the user is identified as forbidden user, then prevent the comment to be associated with content item and show.
In some embodiments, unless otherwise preventing the comment when the user is identified as the author of the comment
Display occurs.
In some embodiments, this method further comprises：Determine the comment content whether with predefined content phase
Matching, wherein then providing when the user is identified as the side of audit should when the content of the comment and predefined content match
Comment shows to be associated with the content.
In some embodiments, which receives from first position, and is assessed the comment so as to the
Two positions are associated with the content item and show.
These and other embodiment can provide one of following advantage or a variety of.Various embodiments provide hair
The display of cloth data item (for example, comment on, post) across various properties.The example of property includes the website of trustship content, social activity
Network, third party website, mobile application can wherein show comment/model other positions or environment.It can make
Comment/the model generated about single theme or content item but on different properties can be used for that identical theme or content is being presented
It is shown on any property of item.It in this way, originally can be by unified so as to suitable by the dialogue only occurred in independent position
It was presented at that time in same position.In addition, the display of comment can be fixed for it to provide to viewer based on social graph data
The experience of system.For example, viewer can see the comment generated being prioritized to check of the user in its social graph, by
This provides personalized experience.
Other aspects will be obvious by the specific embodiment carried out below in conjunction with attached drawing.
Detailed description of the invention
The disclosure can be understood by reference to the description that is carried out below in conjunction with attached drawing.
Fig. 1 illustrates the example framves of the system for implementing embodiment of the present disclosure according to embodiment of the present disclosure
Structure.
Fig. 2 illustrates the publication for being available to the user for being shown in content page according to embodiment of the present disclosure
Publication data item in social network page.
Fig. 3 is illustrated issues comment according to embodiment of the present disclosure on website.
Fig. 4 illustrates the method for showing comment across various properties or posting according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
Fig. 5 A illustrates the system for commenting on display according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
Fig. 5 B illustrates the system for showing comment or posting according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
Fig. 5 C, which is illustrated, to be given birth to according to embodiment of the present disclosure in response to the specific content seen on the mobile apparatus
At comment.
Fig. 5 D is illustrated according to the embodiment with reference to described in Fig. 5 C for generating comment relevant to content item
System.
Fig. 6 is conceptually illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure about the model of content item and about note before
The subsequent postings of son.
Fig. 7 A, which is illustrated, to be used for by the content item owner according to embodiment of the present disclosure to the comment about content item
The interface audited.
Fig. 7 B illustrate according to embodiment of the present disclosure for it is issued it is to content item relevant comment on into
The interface of row audit.
Fig. 8 A illustrates the method for being handled the comment display on the page according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
Fig. 8 B is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for the page of the owner to be arranged in based on predefined audit
The method of upper display model.
Fig. 9 is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for being based partially on social network data on property webpage
The system that comment display is filtered.
Figure 10 conceptually illustrates the individual based on the user for checking content page according to embodiment of the present disclosure
The display of model.
Figure 11, which is conceptually illustrated, discloses model according to the publication to social networks of embodiment of the present disclosure.
Figure 12 is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for notifying new posts relevant to its content item to author
And the method for showing the new posts as a part of the publication stream of content item.
Figure 13 illustrates the system for notifying newly-generated model to author according to embodiment of the present disclosure, this is new
The model of generation is quoted or the content including the author.
Figure 14 illustrates the comment process between the news cluster according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
Figure 15 is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for various marks defined in object relevant to model
Symbol.
Figure 16 A and 16B illustrate according to embodiment of the present disclosure be related to different user different location model with
And the illustrative case of the generated notice shown to different user.
Figure 17 A is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for handling and auditing the method newly commented on.
Figure 17 B is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for determining display comment or by it from User
Hiding method.
Figure 18 is the schematic diagram for implementing the computer system of embodiment of the present disclosure.
Specific embodiment
Following implementation describes method, computer program and the system for showing content across a variety of properties.
It will be apparent that current embodiment can be in the feelings without some or all of these details
It is practiced under condition.
Fig. 1 provides a kind of exemplary architecture for the system that can use embodiment as described herein.User 124 is in society
It hands over and is interacted with one another in the environment of network, wherein user may include true man and entity.Each user has in social networks
There is account, and the account includes at least user name.In addition, each account may include the profile of user, have about with
The additional information at family, such as date of birth, residence, the activity liked etc..Which type of information user, which can control, is added into
Profile and which type of information are shared with other people.User can pass through access from different devices social networks, the difference
Equipment for example smart phone 114, tablet computer 116, laptop computer 118, mobile phone 120, personal computer 122 or
Person provides any calculating equipment of the access to internet.Certainly, illustrated equipment is only example.
According to some embodiments, social network server 106 delivers the clothes for allowing users to interact with one another
Business.Social networks provides the website for allowing users to define user account, the user account can be personal account and
Entity account.By those accounts, user can contact with its good friend, good friend group, entity, entity group etc..One
In a little embodiments, the relationship established in social networks can be utilized in other environment.Processing server 102
Relevant to social networks various additional functions can be configured as executing, such as answering of running in social network environment of execution
With, or processing data relevant to the external site of social functions with integration.Search server 104 provides internet and searches
The ability of rope.
It is noted that embodiment shown in FIG. 1 elaborates certain embodiments.Other embodiment can use different clothes
Business device, so that the function of a server is distributed on multiple servers, so that the function of two or more servers is by group
It is bonded to individual server, with the class of subscriber of different number in social networks, is classified by various criterion to user,
Etc..Embodiment shown in FIG. 1 therefore and be not interpreted as exclusive or restrictive but illustrative.
Fig. 2 illustrates publication of the publication for being available to the user for being shown in content page in social network page
Data item.For the purpose of this disclosure, model, posting or commenting on is construed as publication data item, and these terms can
The user's content generated issued on webpage or property is identified to be used interchangeably.For example, in the environment of social networks,
User is typically generated in " model " or " posting " occurred in the news feed of they and they good friend, and in content sites
On, user is normally in response to distinctive certain contents on the website and generates " comment ".However, the data that these users generate
Each in (model posts, comments on) may be characterized as publication data item, and may be such that can be used for across property
Display.These publication data item carry out display in " feeding " or " stream " usually in social network page or comprising the hair
It is shown on the content page of the associated content of cloth data item.In illustrated embodiment, show user A's
Social network page 200.It include profile pictures 202 in social networks wire side 200.The social activity of the direction of home button 204 user A
The main view of network account.Profile buttons 206 are directed toward profile information and setting.Picture button 208 is then provided and is stored in user A
The access of photo on social networks.Group's button 210 provide to have associated user on social networks with user A can be by
It is organized in the access of tissue group therein.According to the various embodiments of the disclosure, the social networks account of user A can be directed to
Each other aspects at family provide other buttons or link.
Newly post to be created on social networks, user A can into text box 212 typing text.Accessory button 214
It allows users to be inserted into content item into model, such as picture, audio or video.The insertion of content item may have to submit
The URL of content item.In some embodiments, as the typing URL into text box 212, the URL is identified and in posting
The appearance form for the content that the URL is positioned is shown.When user A has completed to write text and is inserted into any into model
After holding item, user can be shared button 216 by pressing and create on social networks and share the model.
In the view of the social network page of illustrated user A, news feed 217 is provided, is shown by user
Good friend and various posting of being carried out of user A.User A, which has been created, posts 222, associated identifier
220, including profile pictures and title, user A be post 222 author.Post 222 include be directed toward can be in individual Web site
Available content item 234 on " anywebsite.com ".222 are posted in response to user A, and user B and C are issued respectively
Response 224 and 226.Publication 222 and its associated response 224 and 226 jointly define issuing unit 218.The news of user A
What feeding 217 further included that user D carried out includes that picture 230 posts 228.
It includes in link that the page 232 of website " anywebsite.com ", which provides and is directed to it to the model 222 of user A,
Hold the access of item 234.It will be appreciated that in various embodiments, link 223 can be directed to content item 234 itself
Link, be perhaps directed to the link of the page 232 of presentation content item 234 or be directed to provide the access to content item 234
Some other pages or resource link.It will also be appreciated that content item 234 can be arbitrary in various types of
Hold, including picture material, audio content, video content, content of text etc..The page 232 includes comment part 236, and user can be with
The comment that other people are issued is commented on and checked in wherein publication.For example, in text box 238, user can with typing text with
Creation is on the surface in relation to the new comment of the content item 234 gone out shown on the page 232.In illustrated embodiment, user E
Issued comment 240.
Due to post 222 include be directed toward content item 234 links, so issuing unit 218 it is related to content item 234 or
It is associated therewith with other way.Therefore may expect to include commenting in the page 232 of presentation content item 234 by issuing unit 218
By in part 236.In illustrated embodiment, 224 Hes of publication 222 and response of issuing unit 218 are jointly defined
It is related to content item 234 or the page 232 and include therefore in the comment part 236 of the page 232 that 226, which are automatically recognized,.
When post 222 be displayed on the page 232 of content sites when, link 223 can be removed, because it is embodying content 234
The page 232 view in be extra.Issuing unit 218 is on social networks, but it is available to the user for holding in the palm
Pipe post content cited in 222 website on show.In this way, on a website (or property or position) with it is another
The relevant user of the content of a website content generated can be synchronized and show across two websites.Therefore, it posts
Link in 222 is identified as the comment and is related to the instruction of content item 234, wherein current techniques make include the comment hair
Cloth unit 218 is auto-available in the page 232, that is, in comment part wherein.It has technical effect that the comment is available
Website other than the website that the comment occurs originally, therefore distribution of the comment in internet and visible is improved automatically
Property.
Fig. 3 illustrates the publication commented on website.In illustrated embodiment, user A logs on in website simultaneously
And access the page 300 of the website.The page 300 embodies content 302, can be the various embodiments according to the disclosure
Any type of content.User A can click the text that frame 304 is newly commented on typing, which will be in the comment of the page 300
It is issued in part 310.
Comment shown in comment part 310 selectively the various characteristics based on the comment can be shown or be arranged
Sequence.For example, provide drop-down menu 306 enable a user to be selected from various order standards, such as according to recently or
Highest comment is evaluated to be ranked up.(comment may include allowing users to give expression to approval or disapproving comment, therefore base
The approval that goes out expressed by the user or the mechanism for disapproving and giving the evaluation for comment.) in illustrated embodiment,
" top set comment " sorts can establish the sequence of comment based on various standards, and among others, above-mentioned standard is such as close
The combination of phase property and evaluation.Other factor for example may include whether the author of the comment is in the social graph of active user
In, for the number of responses of comment, length of comment and/or its response, include link in comment, in comment include predefined pass
Keyword, comment author and geographic proximity, the language of comment of viewer etc..
Check box 308 enables user A to configure comment part 310 only to show from the social graph for being in user A
In user comment.
When user A is clicked on frame 304 to define new comment, can be presented with relevant to newly commenting on attached
Add option.For example, user A, which can be specified, will can share therewith those of comment people in frame 312.Technology possessed by this way
Effect is that the visibility of comment is restricted, therefore promotes and ensure the privacy of comment distribution.The privacy is for this
Commenting on the property that the property of publication and the comment are distributed according to the content item that may wherein mention to there originally is all
Effectively.In illustrated embodiment, open specified 314 are default to indicate that the comment will share with the public, this meaning
Taste the comment will be accessed any other user of the page 300 and seen.
Check box 316 allows to share on user A social networks with its social graph new comment.By in editor's link 318
On clicked, user A can be from by the various use in the social graph that can share therewith the user A of the comment on social networks
It is selected in the group of family.New comment therefore will be as user those of in group specified in the social networks of user A
Posting and occurring in social networks news feed.In some embodiments, when comment is shown in user on social networks
News feed in when, which can have the link for being directed toward the page 300, or be attached to its page 300 or content 302
Some other identifiers.In this way, the environment of the comment is provided when it is shown on social networks.
Fig. 4 illustrate for across various positions-for example, in one or more properties, website or other positions example-
Method display comment or posted.400 are operated in method, creation comment.Method operate 402, to the comment analyzed with
Identify the content cited in the comment.About described example before, which can identify interior in direction comment
Hold the link of item, therefore content item is identified by the link.In some embodiments, the identification of content may have to
Identify the URL or other identifiers of content cited in the comment.404 are operated in method, determines example for the content identified
Such as standardize the identifier of identifier (ID).In the case where included URL is used as the identifier of the cited content of comment,
Standardization ID can be the URL that standardizes determined by URL of the URL itself either based on included by the comment.
The ID that standardizes is single identifier associated with content item or content quotation.Multiple content items or its reference can
With associated with identical standardization ID.However, two standardization ID cannot be specified to same content items or content quotation.As
Example, multiple URL can substantially position identical content item (for example, difference URL can be directed toward/be directed toward same web page again
Or item, or it is directed toward the substantially the same different instances of this), while being encoded to identical basic content, individually
Media file in the structure may different (for example, different compression, bit rate, encoding scheme etc.), etc..For that will advise
Generalized ID processing associated with particular content item or its reference may include being analyzed the content item to be with determining its
It is no that another content item is similar to the degree for being greater than predetermined threshold.If it is, the two content items are confirmed as substantially
It is similar and associated with identical standardization ID.Being confirmed as content item not essentially similar with another content item can
Associated with the ID that uniquely standardizes with their own, which is not shared with other content items.It will anticipate
Know, can determine whether two content items are essentially similar using various identifications and comparison techniques.
406 are operated in method, is tagged using identified standardization ID to comment.408 are operated in method, in response to needle
Request to the comment in relation to content, for utilized standardization ID it is tagged comment execute search.For related content
The request of comment can be carried out in the service of the request for the page for embodying the content identified by standardization ID
Or as part of it.It will be appreciated that according to presently described method creation reference can be being provided for user
Any property (for example, the original host site of content, social networks, third party website, mobile application etc.) of the comment of content
Upper creation comment, and since such comment will be marked using identical standardization ID, so being based on standardization ID
To carried out subsequent searches are commented on, no matter how its source will all return to all these comments.In this way it is possible to by knowing
Not Wei comment relevant to particular content can be shown across a variety of properties.It has technical effect that, comments on not only single
Its property-for usually creating the comment of property-is upper and is shown on multiple properties, therefore the text energy of the comment
It is enough to carry out more extensive distribution, and therefore information included in the comment is more likely to be transmitted to interested reading
Person, therefore improve information distribution on the whole and propagate.
Fig. 5 A illustrates the system for commenting on display according to embodiment of the present disclosure.Commenting on generator 500 includes
For creating the GUI of comment.According to the GUI, input is received to define comment.Comment and analysis device 504 analyzes the comment
To identify content cited in the comment, such as pass through URL included in the comment.Label model 506 is with reference to standardization ID
Storage 508 utilizes standardization ID to this to determine standardization ID for the content as cited in the comment identified
Comment is marked.The comment is stored in comment storage 510.
User 524 operates equipment 522 to request the page of the embodiment content from web server 514.Web server 514 is wrapped
It includes for the content retrieval module 516 from content-data storage 512 for requested page retrieval content.Comment on retrieval module
518 retrieve comment relevant to the content retrieved for requested page from comment storage 510.It is utilized by search and is directed to institute
The comment that is marked of the associated standardization ID of content of request page retrieval and retrieve relevant comment.Page summarizing module
520 summarize it before requested page to be supplied to equipment 522 and is consumed for user 524.
Fig. 5 B illustrates the system for showing comment or posting according to embodiment of the present disclosure.Web server 520
Including page summarizing module 520, for including the comment widget (widget) in the page, the above-mentioned page is sent to for retrieval
Equipment 522 is to be shown.Comment widget 532 can present as a part of the page 528 in iframe,
It is presented beside the content 530 of the page 528.Comment widget 532 is configured as retrieval and the page 528 from comment storage 510
Shown on go out the relevant comment of content 530.
Fig. 5 C, which is illustrated, to be given birth to according to embodiment of the present disclosure in response to the specific content seen on the mobile apparatus
At comment.In illustrated embodiment, mobile device 540 includes display 542.Accessing can be in using the user of A
Now with the view of specific content item 544.In illustrated embodiment, an article is shown in view 544, but will
Recognize to show any type of content item.Button 548 is provided to allow user to check comment or in response to checking
This article and add new comment.Button 548 when activated, is configured as opening and is configured as processing commenting for content item
The second of opinion applies B.
It is performed when using B, view 550 is provided.In view 550, provides and present in view 550 for it
Comment content item expression or other marks.As an example, the title 552 of display article, and it can be defined as
Inline linking including being directed toward this article.Various comments 556 relevant to this article are shown in view 550.As here
What other places were discussed, comment 556 may include the comment generated at different location or property originally, but it can
It is aggregated and retrieves with the system and method according to the disclosure.Further it is provided that comment typing field 554 is to allow user's typing literary
Originally defining will new comment associated with this article.
In some embodiments, in addition user can interact with the comment 556 issued by other users.Example
Such as, other feature relevant to commenting on 558 can be selected to access by giving comment 558, and such as permission user replys and comments
Comment 558 is shared to the social graph of the user by 558, or on social networks.
In addition, being configured as allowing user by this article point using button 546 is shown in view 554 provided by A
Enjoy the social graph to its social networks.With continued reference to Fig. 5 C, when activator button 546, view 560 is provided to facilitate this
Article is shared to the generation of the new posts of social networks.It will be appreciated that view 560 can be mentioned by identical application A
For or by be different from using being used alone of A-such as being provided with the specialized application-that social networks interacts.
In illustrated embodiment, sharing interface provided in view 560 includes the reference 564 for article (for example, this article
The title of chapter or preview) and Characters field 562, user can wherein typing text to be included as to social activity
The a part of network posted.User can be specified in recipient's field 566 special member of the social graph of the user with
Receive new posts.
Share button 568 and triggers the generation for sharing the new posts of this article to social networks as defined above.It takes
The button 570 that disappears can be pressed to cancel the generation of new posts.It will be appreciated that new to social networks as has been described
The model of generation can occur in other environment that wherein comment relevant to this article or model are aggregated, such as using B
Provided view 550.
Assuming that can provide function as described herein using each of A and application B, they, which may each be, is matched
It is set to any various types of applications executed in mobile device 540.It in some embodiments, is web browser using A
Or it is integrated with the application of the machine web browser function.In other embodiments, it is configured as being detached from the machine web using A
Browser function and retrieve and presentation content specialized application.It is different from the application using A using B.In some embodiments
In, it is social networking application using B.In some embodiments, for sharing the view 560 of article to social networks by identical
It is provided using B.Therefore, the identical social networks that view 550 and view 560 can be performed from mobile device 540 with origin
The different interfaces of application are provided.
Fig. 5 D is illustrated according to the embodiment with reference to described in Fig. 5 C for generating comment relevant to content item
System.Mobile device 540 includes at least one processor 571, memory 572, display 542 and operating system 573.Attached drawing mark
Content retrieval module 575 is defined to include using A indicated by note 574.Content retrieval module 575 is configured as passing through network
585 request from content server 586 and retrieve content.In response to given request, content server 586 in turn can be from content number
It is retrieved according to storage 587 and supplies given content item.
Further comprise content renderer 576 using A, be configured as the presentation content item 577 in mobile device 540,
Such as by showing content item on display 542.Comment module 578 is configured as activation/opening in mobile device 540
(and if initiate to execute if being not switched on, or make it come foreground in the case where backstage executes) using B (with attached
Icon note 580 is shown).Comment module 578 provides 548 described function of button with reference to shown in Fig. 5 C.In some implementations
In mode, comment module 578 is defined as the permanent sections using A.In other embodiments, comment module 578, which combines, supplies
It is downloaded together using other contents that A is presented.
Comment module 578 can by define trigger mechanism and for according to mobile device 540 operating system 573 and beat
It opens and is defined using the code section of the API Calls of B.The API Calls can define positioning using B specific to operating system
URL.In addition, the API Calls include the content parameters to identify by application B for the content item of its display or generation comment.
The content parameters are transported to using B, and are used to identify that user is applying the content item checked in A before using B, and
And thus provide the appropriate performance and the related commentary of the content item of the content item.In some embodiments, the content
Parameter is the standardization identifier of the content item.In other embodiments, which is not standardization identifier；So
And according to the embodiment that other places are discussed here, the standardization of the content parameters can be corresponded to by determining first
Identifier and for the content item across multiple properties retrieve comment on.
It further comprise the comment generator of the function for the comment typing field 554 being previously mentioned before providing using B
582, to allow user to generate new comment relevant to content item.The data that the comment generator 582 newly comments on definition upload
To comment server 588, which is stored in the data in comment data storage 589.Comment on retrieval module
583 are configured as retrieving relevant to the content item identified comment from comment server 588, above-mentioned comment server 588 into
And it is commented on from 589 supply of comment data storage.Graphic user interface 584 is presented to user, and example is in Fig. 5 C by view 550
It is shown.
In some embodiments, the API Calls being previously mentioned before can also in addition transport information to allow user to return
Original application A (for example, using local URL information of A).Feature (the example using A before opening therefore can be presented using B
Such as, the Back button of local URL information is utilized).This is to have for the application before returning to user in an easy manner
?.
Fig. 6 conceptually illustrates the model about content item and the subsequent postings about model before.Content item 600
Associated URL 602.Model 604 includes model content 608, and defining will show when model 604 is shown
The information shown.Model content 608 may include various information, including text, the attached image/audio, chain by the typing of user institute
It connects.In illustrated example, model content 608 includes the URL 602 of content 600.Model 604 further includes metadata 610.
In metadata 610, label is by having been based on the standardization URL institute of the identification of the URL presented in model content 608 and determination
Definition.Standardizing URL can be identical or different with URL 602.Therefore, model 604 utilizes the standardization URL for identifying content 600
It is marked.
In one case, model 604 can be shared by the generation of subsequent postings 612 with other people.Subsequent note
Son 612 model content 614 therefore may include before model 604 URL606.The post metadata 616 of subsequent postings 612
It can also include the label of identification model 604, can be either its version of standardizing of URL 606 of model 604.
When executing search for model relevant to content 600, retrieves and utilize standardization associated with content 600
The model that ID is marked.These will include model 604 but not include model 612, because model 612 is not marked so
Note.Share again about the subsequent postings of model before content and retrieve about content in this way it is possible to be detached from
Model.For example, this may be desired when providing the page for embodying content 600, because it is not necessarily retrieved as pass
In the additional model of the existing model of the content shared again.On the other hand, it may be desirable to all share one again together with its
It rises and understands or present given model, in this case, presently described configuration facilitates the URL that retrieval utilizes model 604
606 models being marked, to include the model 612 shared again as model 604.
Fig. 7 A illustrates the interface audited for the owner by content item to the comment about content item.Webpage
700 present content item 702.In illustrated view, user logs in as the owner of content item.The illustrated page
700 can be website, can be created by content owner in the website, upload simultaneously content of edit item, and in the website
Such content item is in trust and is available to the user for being downloaded or being consumed by other users (for example, viewing image or video, listen
Audio file etc.).In frame 704, the owner can typing text to create new comment.Comment relevant to content item 702 is being commented
It is shown by viewing area 710.
In some embodiments, content owner can be provided to audit the option of comment.For example, content owner
It can pre-define to how handling the setting newly commented on and be managed.The possible setting of one kind configures comment to except not all
Person is indicated otherwise to go through to show automatically in other ways.Alternatively possible setting configures comment to except not all
Person's special authorization they shown and otherwise do not gone through.
In illustrated embodiment, the 706 informing owners is notified to have comment waiting for ratification.By in button 708
On clicked, the owner be able to access that not yet it is approved comment 712.Unless by owner's special authorization, otherwise these
Comment will not be displayed to other users of accession page 700.The owner can indicate that approval should by activator button 714
Comment is shown.Alternatively, the owner can delete pending comment by activator button 716.
It will be appreciated that can determine whether the content item has can know when generating the comment about content item
Other owner.If the owner can be identified, which can for particular content item setting predetermined
Manage the processing newly commented on and the display on the webpage of the content item.However, then comment can be wrapped if there is no the owner
It includes beside other comments to be shown on the webpage of content item.In the webpage of given user's access item, whether comment
Other factors can be depended on by being actually displayed, described as described elsewhere herein, such as recent property, ranking etc..
Fig. 7 B illustrate according to embodiment of the present disclosure for it is issued it is to content item relevant comment on into
The interface of row audit.Show comment administration view with allow can by third party user for its publication comment content item or
The owner of the page audits the display of such comment.In illustrated embodiment, the views selection at the interface
Part 720 facilitates selection, and which is commented on to be shown in the comment viewing area 730 at the interface.As an example, can select
Button 722 is selected to show all comments that can be used for the owner and check.It is discussed as described elsewhere herein, it should be recognized that
It is, and all comments of the content item of the non-quoted owner or the page all necessarily can be used for the owner and check.For example, user institute into
Capable comment is not disclosed in the comment shares but with selected user (eliminating the owner)-for example, commenting on user's
Individual or subgroup-in social graph are just not useable for being checked by the owner in the case where sharing.Therefore, it selects
Button 722 will not make such private comment shared shown, but the comment of owner's Internet access will be facilitated
Display.Therefore, it is contemplated that the individual of recipient or group can clearly be specified.Having the technical effect that for this feature limits sharing
It makes and makes that the third party to the intended recipient for being not authorized to or not commenting on is prevented to carry out comment transmission, therefore really
It has protected and the privacy of the user of the comment is provided.
Can select button 724 so that ratifying the comment that is shown on the page of the owner by the owner not yet
It is shown.The quantity of such comment to wait for ratification can be displayed on button 724 or side.In illustrated reality
It applies in mode, has a comment that the owner is being waited to ratify.Button 726, which can be selected to display, to have gone through all
The comment shown on the page of person.In illustrated embodiment, there are 23 comments to go through.It can select to press
Button 728 so that and the comment that is not approved for being shown on the page of the owner show.In illustrated embodiment party
In formula, there are three comments being not approved for.It should be appreciated that and being not approved for showing on the page of the owner
The comment shown still can be shown in another environment, such as in comment user or be commented in the social graph of user
User social networks stream in show.
In illustrated embodiment, comment 732 is shown in comment viewing area 730.Comment 732 is indicated as waiting
Owner's approval.The owner can choose button 734 to ratify comment 732 or select button 736 to disapprove the comment.Such as
Fruit goes through, then commenting on 732 will just can be used on the page of the owner showing, and depends on each described in other places
Kind of factor can with or cannot be shown for the given user of accession page.If be not approved for, comment 732 can not
For being shown on the page of the owner.Comment 738 is shown under comment 732.Comment 738 is indicated as specified
Date goes through.
In addition, sort menu 740 facilitates selection for being ranked up to the display of the comment in comment viewing area 730
Method.For example, comment can pass through the recent property posted or other activities (for example, the response issued) relevant to posting
It is ranked up.Comment is also based on activity relevant to comment (for example, to the nearest reply specifically commented on, commenting on again
Share), the social graph data of user etc. are ranked up.
It has generally described and has facilitated the owner that can ratify and disapprove to comment on to show on the page of the owner
The aforementioned embodiments shown.In such an embodiment, comment can be filtered in advance, and clearly to criticize except nonowners
The quasi- comment otherwise its be not useable for showing on the page of the owner.However, in another embodiment, comment can be by
Later period filtering, wherein except nonowners clearly disapprove the comment otherwise its just can be used on the page of the owner showing.It is right
In various embodiments, commenting on administration view can include different or other part.For example, option can be provided to show
"unread" comment, shows the comment checked not yet by the owner.Whether comment is owned
Person, which checked, for example can have been clicked on or otherwise selected that this is commented in the comment based on the owner
By to be determined for checking.Another option can make " new " comment be shown, above-mentioned " new " comment is since all
It person's last login and accesses the comment administration view and plays received comment.
Fig. 8 A illustrates the method for being handled the comment display on the page.800 are operated in method, receives the page
Request.802 are operated in method, determines standardization ID for the requested page.804 are operated in method, it should for having utilized
The comment that standardization ID is marked scans for, and retrieves these comments in order to can be carried out display.It is operated in method
806, identify the characteristic of viewer.Such as, if it is determined that viewer is the owner of requested page, then operates 808 in method,
The view of the owner is shown to the user.The view of the owner can be similar with described in reference Fig. 7 A or 7B, for institute
The person of having provides the privilege features for being shown or being deleted the ability of comment including approval comment.
With continued reference to Fig. 8 A, in operation 806, if it is determined that viewer is third party, then in operation 810, based on needle
The comment application retrieved is filtered in the predefined setting that the page is arranged.If not applying filtering, operating
812, so that all retrieved comments can be used in showing.If filtered using the later period, in operation 814, so that all
Comment can be used in display unless they are not ratified by the page owner.And if application filtering in advance, is operating
816, only those of clearly to ratify comment by the owner just to can be used for showing.
In operation 818, the comment that can be used for showing is based on various factors and carries out ranking, and above-mentioned factor includes the spy of viewer
Property, comment author characteristic and comment characteristic.As an example, these may include various material elements, including：Comment
Recent property, the evaluation of comment, the response for comment, the length of comment, the keyword found in comment, viewer geography
Whether position, the geographical location for commenting on author, comment author are among the social graph of viewer, etc..It can be to various
Factor is using various weights can generate whole score with comment for every.Its whole score therefore can be based on comment
Carry out ranking.In operation 820, comment is displayed on the requested page based on its rank order.
Fig. 8 B is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for the page of the owner to be arranged in based on predefined audit
The method of model is shown on face.In operation 830, the stream of publication data item associated with content item is identified.Issue data item
Stream is present on webpage together typically together with content item.The owner of webpage can be according to method as described herein to the stream
In the display of publication data item audited.In operation 832, the owner of stream defines audit setting.This is mentioned for the owner
Three kinds of selections are supplied：(1) without filtering (appended drawing reference 834), wherein the publication data item of for example all publication data item is all available
It is shown in Yu Liu；(2) later period filtering (appended drawing reference 836), wherein disapproving/deleting except nonowners pass through in other ways
Mechanism is indicated that otherwise issuing data item can be used for being shown in stream；Or (3) filtering (appended drawing reference 838) in advance,
Wherein the owner ratifies the publication data item that can be used for showing in stream.
In operation 840, the user of the page of the identification access owner.The identification of user can log in wherein via user
Facilitated, the website of the page of the above system for example including the owner, social networks, electronics with establishing the various systems of its identity
Mail service etc..In operation 842, the setting of the stream gone out shown on the page in the owner is determined.As the above mentioned, the stream
It can be configured as not using filtering, apply later period filtering or filtering in advance.If not application filtering, in operation 844, inspection
The metadata of Suo Suoyou model is to take in.If stream is configured as later period filtering, in operation 846, retrieval is except
It is clear those of do not ratified by the owner except all models to take in.If the stream is configured as mistake in advance
Filter, then in operation 848, retrieval has defined the metadata for the model ratified by the owner.
In operation 850, the characteristic based on the post metadata and user retrieved carries out ranking to model.It will realize
It may include any various information about model to, the post metadata of given model, such as date created/time,
The User ID of author, by instruction that other users are ratified (for example,+1, hold up thumb etc.) including link or other content items,
Or for ranking purpose and may relevant any other information.The characteristic of user may include true about given user institute
Fixed any various information, such as geographical location, social graph data etc..The post metadata can be carried out in conjunction with user personality
Consider.For example, being write or being received batch of other people in user social contact map by other people in user social contact map
The model of quasi- instruction can preferentially be shown to user.It will be appreciated that being based on post metadata and user personality
Factor the considerations of can be based on weighting scoring system, wherein various weights are applied to considered various factors to generating
The whole score of every model.Therefore the ranking of model can be based on the whole score of every model.
In operation 852, model content is obtained (for example, text included in model and interior for model to display
Hold item).In operation 854, model is shown according to its ranking.Optionally, in operation 856, user can be provided to ranking
The input influenced, such as request are ranked up model according to specific sequence profile.
Fig. 9, which is illustrated, comments on what display was filtered on property webpage for being at least partially based on social network data
System.Social network server 900 accesses the data of the account storage 902 of the user data come on self-contained social networks.It mentions
For API 904, it can be requested by it and access social network data.Login module 906 makes user 908 log on to social network
In network.
Property server 910 includes the login module 914 for logging in user.Owner's account information is stored in
In owner's account storage 912.For example, the owner 922 is shown to log on on the property.910 trustship user of property server
908 requested webpages.In response to being directed to the request of the webpage, comment retrieval module 916 retrieves phase from content-data storage 920
Close comment.Filtering module 918 is filtered comment according to various standards as discussed above.The filtration treatment may include
The API 904 of social networks is accessed to retrieve the social graph data of user 908, and the social graph number of the author commented on
According to.
Figure 10 conceptually illustrates the individual based on the user for checking content page according to embodiment of the present disclosure
The display of model.Content page 1000 is shown as being checked by the user A logged in.Content page 1000 includes content item
1002.User A create private (or being not designated as disclosure) and in some manner with the associated user-of user A
For example, a part of a part of the social graph as user A or the subgroup of the user in the social graph of user A
The new model 1004 that user-is shared.In the illustrated embodiment, user B is one of the social graph of user A
Point.Therefore, when user B is logged in and when checking identical content page, then be presented to the user B content page 1006 include for
The access for the private model 1004 that user A is created.User B can choose the model 1004 for replying user A, and therefore generate
Reply model 1008.Since user A is a part of the social graph of user B, so the reply model can be displayed on and be in
Now in the content page 1000 of user A.
However, due to model 1004 and non-public model, but the private model shared with limited user group, institute
It can not be seen in the open view of the content page as shown in appended drawing reference 1010 (no user login) with model 1004.It is private
People's model 1004 also will be unavailable for using to another login of a part for the groups of users that not can share therewith model 1004
Family is shown.In addition, model 1004 is also not useable for looking into when the owner logs on to the content page as shown in appended drawing reference 1012
It sees.
Figure 11, which is conceptually illustrated, issues open model to social networks according to embodiment of the present disclosure.It shows
The social network page 1100 of user A.User A generates new open model 1102 and divides it with user B, C and D
It enjoys.Model 1102 includes the reference 1104 to the content for being created or being possessed by author 1124 in content page 1114, and also
It is marked using the content ID of the identification based on content quotation 1104.Personal social networks of the model 1102 in user A is fed
Or stream 1101 in shown, but also the social networks for user B, C and the D that can share therewith model 1102 feed or flow in into
Row display.Therefore, model 1102 respectively appears in the social network page 1108,1110 and 1112 of user B, C and D.
Since model 1102 is open model, it is assumed that content page 1114 includes the active flow for showing model,
Then it can also can be used in the content page 1114 of author 1124 showing.Content page 1114 includes author's label 1120,
Its author that author 1124 is identified as to content page 1114.Based on the identification according to author's label 1120 to author 1124, energy
Enough send to author 1124 notifies, the creation of model 1102 is informed to the author.Author's label may include facilitating author's
Notice any various types of information, such as e-mail address, telephone number, network address or domain, user name (for example,
User name on social network user name, messaging service user name, chat service users name or another type of property),
Either the destination of specified notification or offer can be in other ways according to any other types of its information for generating notice
Information.
According to the disclosure, author 1124 can be notified when generating the open model about the content of the author.This is logical
Knowing can occur via messaging service 1122, the messaging service 1122 such as E-mail service, social networks, mobile messaging clothes
Business, private message service of website etc..By notifying the open model about its content to author, which has an opportunity to the note
Whether son, which appears in the stream on the page of author, is made audit, and is also had an opportunity to reply the model and therefore be participated in
Among the dialogue about its content occurred in model environment.In illustrated embodiment, author 1124 is notified to go out
Model 1102 in the content page 1114 of present author.Author 1124 replys model by issuing in content page 1114
1118 and the model 1102 is made a response, reply model 1118 be transmitted to user A social network page 1100 stream
The stream of the social network page of 1101 and user B, C and D.
It should be appreciated that author can also be referred to as content can belong to its owner or other specified heads
Rank, and it therefore can be not only individual, but as the group of attribute, tissue or can be appointed using the authorship of content or ownership
It anticipates other types of entity.The identification of author or the owner may not necessarily require identification practical for the purpose of this disclosure
The appropriate title of people or entity, but can simply require to determine so that the interior perhaps page belongs to known personal or entity,
And it can be used to generate the identification information about its content/page model to the personal or entity notice.
Furthermore, it will be appreciated that, it is understood that there may be multiple authors associated with given content item or the owner.In various embodiment party
In formula, using personal or common definition preference as condition, some or all of the author/owner can be notified.
Embodiment of the present disclosure is provided will be notified that when generating model about its content in perhaps content page
The owner.It should be appreciated that the position of model and the position of content are likely to be on incoherent property, for instance in
In the different web pages for not sharing shared domain, on heterogeneous networks, on different web sites, etc..In some embodiments
In, model is generated on social networks, and the content is then located on the content sites for not sharing shared domain with the social networks.
It is such to have technical effect that, enable to the comment created on the property other than the property for providing content item easily may be used
For the owner of content item, and the owner of content item may include the comment about its content item without understanding or searching for
Tous les biens.Therefore, the access to comment relevant to its content is facilitated and supported to this technology, saves and determines the comment
Time and resource.
Figure 12 is illustrated for notifying new posts relevant to its content item to author and using the new posts as content
The method that a part of item publication stream is shown.In operation 1200, the request for generating new posts is received.The new posts can wrap
Include content item or to content item or the reference of the page including content item and other model contents.In operation 1202, really
Whether the fixed model is open model.If it is, being analyzed the model content to identify content item in operation 1204.
In operation 1206, the author of the content item is identified.In some embodiments, which can be related to content item by detecting
Author's label of connection or the page including the content item and be identified.
In operation 1208, determine whether the author is currently online.The online availability of author can be existed based on author is checked
Related system-such as social networks, content sites or the logging state on other websites-and determine.If author is determined
To be online, then in operation 1210, notification line is shown to author.For example, can author on social networks or website
Line ession for telecommunication shows pop-up display, warning item or some other types of visual notification mechanism to the author.The notice is also
It may include the playback of audio-alert sound.The notice has just generated new open model relevant to the content of the author
The fact and alert author.Other than notification line, in operation 1212, offline notification, such as electronics can be sent to user
Mail, private message, mobile warning etc..It will be appreciated that if be confirmed as not online operating 1208 authors,
Offline notification is sent in operation 1212.As notification line, which provides the new life with the content for being related to author
At the relevant information of model.
In some embodiments, notice (online and offline) may include handing over other than alerting new model to author
Mutual formula element.For example, notice may include the preview of model content and the optional choosing for ratifying or disapproving the model
?.In some embodiments, which includes the link for navigating to administration page, and author can pass through the administration page
The model is audited.The notice can also include being directed toward the link of the primal environment of model, such as be directed toward for the first time to its society
Network flow is handed over to issue the social network page of the user of the comment.
Figure 13 illustrates the system for notifying newly-generated model to author, which quotes or including being somebody's turn to do
The content of author.Show the various contents of the content comprising that in model can be included or be quoted in other ways
The page 1300.Given content page may include the author's label 1302 for identifying the author of content page.Given content page is also
It may include publication widget 1304, be configured as display and offer of the management model in content page for creating new post
The mechanism of son.Index 1306 is indexed content page, and information is stored to registration table 1310.For giving content page
For, index 1306 can store various types of information, URL including content page, identified with content page phase
Associated author, author Notify Address (for example, author's label 1302 based on the reading of content page) and can be used to
Label includes the content ID of the model of the reference to content page.Content ID generator 1308 is directed in given content page generation
Hold ID.
1312 storage of model data storage defines the data of model.As mentioned, model can from content page institute
Including publication widget generate.Model can also be generated from social networks 1314, which includes new for generating
Model post generators 1316.Notification module 1318 is configured to include author's identification module 1320 to identify model institute
The author of the content page of reference.Identification based on author, it is online logical in the case that the activation author of notification module 1318 is online
Know that any one of mechanism and offline notification mechanism or both, such as access communication service 1322 disappear to send to author 1324
Breath.Publication widget 1304 can be similarly configured as providing the notice of the author of content cited in model.
In various embodiments, identification module 1318 can be configured as determines author in various ways.For example, as
Through what is described, author can be determined to identify author's label by accessing and reading file cited in model, the author
It tag recognition author and provides and author is carried out notify relevant information to facilitating.In another embodiment, content
Author or the owner can register its content via registration service 1326.Registration service 1326 allows content owner to exist
By ownership and contact details (for example, e-mail address, telephone number, user name etc.) and in it in registration table 1310
The reference of appearance is associated.Identification module 1318 is directed to given content item and reads coherent ownership and connection letter from registration table 1310
Breath, and the information is notified module 1318 and is used to trigger to the owner of the content identified transmission notice.
Figure 14 illustrates the comment process between news cluster.News cluster 1400 is defined to include more news articles
1402,1404 and 1406, each piece in them is directed to identical theme.Including the particular news text in the news cluster
Chapter can be determined based on the content for analyzing each piece news article with for example identifying keyword, picture material etc..Some
In embodiment, determine the similarity grade between news article, and have similarity grade higher than predetermined threshold that
A little news articles are included in common news cluster.
In illustrated embodiment, article 1404 is present in the page 1408, shows user below this article
Comment generated.Comment 1410 is generated by user response in this article.However, since article 1404 is and 1406 phase of article
A part of same news cluster, so comment 1410 can be appeared in when 1406 quilt of article according to mechanism as described herein
When being presented on the page 1412 among shown comment part.Similarly, in response to the article 1406 on the page 1412 and
The comment 1414 of generation can appear among the comment part of the page 1408.
Article 1402,1404 and 1406 is different mutually.But since they are identified as identical news cluster
A part, so comment relevant to these articles can use common identifier and be marked.Then, when an article is shown
When showing, it can thus retrieve for search is executed using the comment that the common identifier is marked and be directed to this newly
Hear any article comment generated in cluster.In this way, the comment quilt of any article in the news cluster
So that can be used for the display when one of news article is presented on the page.
Figure 15 is illustrated according to embodiment of the present disclosure for various marks defined in object relevant to model
Symbol.Model 1500 is defined to include content item 1502 (for example, video) and text 1504.For each of these,
It can determine unique ID.For example, content item 1502 can have ID1, text 1504 has ID2, and model 1500 has
ID3.Model 1500 can use each of these ID and be marked, i.e., model 1500 is marked using ID1, ID2 and ID3
Note.
A response for model 1500 is model 1506 comprising text 1508.Text 1508 can be designated with
ID4, and model 1506 is designated with ID5.Therefore model 1506 can use the ID3 (note that model 1506 responds thereto
Son ID) and ID4 and ID5 be marked.
Another response for model 1500 is model 1510 comprising content item 1512.Content item 1512 can be by
It specifies with ID6, and model 1510 is designated with ID7.Model 1510 can use ID3, and (model 1510 responds thereto
The ID of model) and ID6 and ID7 be marked.
Response for model 1510 is model 1514 comprising text 1516.Text 1516 is given ID8 and model
1514 are given ID9, so that model 1514 utilizes ID7 (ID for the model that model 1514 responds thereto) and ID8 and ID9
It is marked.
Model or part of it can be shared again.For example, model 1518 has shared content item 1502 again,
But the text 1504 without sharing model 1500 again.Model 1518 is given ID10.Therefore model 1518 utilizes ID1 (quilt
The ID for the content item 1502 shared again) and ID10 be marked.
Model 1520 has shared text 1504 again but has not shared the content item 1502 of model 1500 again.Model
1520 are given ID11.Therefore model 1520 is marked using ID2 (ID for the text 1504 shared again) and ID11.
Model 1522 has shared model 1500 with whole again.Therefore model 1522 includes content item 1502 and text
1504.Model 1522 is given ID12.Model 1522 is marked using ID3 (ID for the model 1500 shared again) and ID12
Note.
It should be appreciated that the sharing again of model can for example be pressed by selection in customer acceptance or instruction approval-
Button with indicate they " like " model or thumb up to its "+1 ", for it etc.-model when occur.
Since model is marked using various ID, so can be scanned for based on label with retrieval and specific content
Item, text or the relevant model of model.
As discussed herein, the user for generating model or content can receive model or interior as related be related to
The movable notice held.In some embodiments, such notice can be defined as the sense for being sensitive to interactive recipient
Position (for example, website or other properties)-is known that is, the user for receiving the notice, which initially generates, sends notice for it
Model or the location of content.The notice can be defined as showing as being sent from the position.With reference to Figure 16 A and
16B shows and is related to different user in the model of different location and to the illustrative case of notice caused by different user,
Illustrate the principle according to embodiment of the present disclosure.
In Figure 16 A, the view 1600 (for example, webpage view) of content sites is shown.User " Bob " logs on to the content
Website (appended drawing reference 1602).Video 1604 is uploaded to the content sites by user " Alice ".Bob sees the view of Alice
Frequently 1604 and created at the content sites it is relevant to video 1604 comment 1606.The comment 1606 of Bob is in the content
It shows, and is also shared to the social graph of the Bob as defined in social networks on website.
The view 1620 (for example, webpage view) of social networks shows user " Christie " and logs on to social networks
(appended drawing reference 1622).In illustrated embodiment, provided in view 1620 for generating new post to social networks
The model of son generates interface 1624.Christie is the member of the social graph of Bob, and therefore video of the Bob in relation to Alice
1604 comment 1606 appears in the latest activities feeding for Christie on social networks as model 1626.Model
1626 instruction Bob have made comment to the video of Alice, provide content (" the Nice video of the comment of Bob！"),
It and further comprise the link 1628 of the comment for the Bob being directed toward on content sites.Model 1626 further includes reader 1630,
It is configured as showing the video of Alice in the environment of the model 1626 on social networks.Christie is in the model for Bob
Model 1632 is generated in 1626 reply on social networks.The model 1632 of Christie is not only displayed on social networks
On, but also shown in the content sites, such as the comment 1608 in the view 1600 of the Bob as content sites.
The view 1640 of content sites shows user " David " and logs on to the content sites, and also has viewed Alice
Video (appended drawing reference 1644).The comment of Bob appears in appended drawing reference 1646, and comment of the Christie for Bob
Reply appears in appended drawing reference 1648.David replys the comment of Christie, generates comment 1650 in content sites.David's
Alice and Bob (appended drawing reference 1652) are also quoted/are marked in comment 1650.The comment 1650 of David is at appended drawing reference 1610
It appears in the view 1600 of the Bob of content sites, and also appears in social networks at appended drawing reference 1634
In the view 1620 of Christie.
The activity that each user of the content sites and social networks that are previously mentioned before is carried out will lead to various notices and live
It is dynamic.Bob publication comment 1606 leads to informing movement " A "；The model 1632 of Christie leads to informing movement " B "；And David
Publication comment 1650 leads to informing movement " C ".Various informing movement A, B and C conceptually refer to Figure 16 B and are illustrated and retouched
It states.
When Bob comments on the video of Alice on content sites 1660,1664 are notified to be sent to Alice,
Instruction Bob has made comment to the video.It notifies 1664 to be defined from content sites 1660, and may include Bob
Content (" the Nice Video of comment！") and link for checking the comment at content sites 1660.
When Christie is when social networks 1662 issues its reply for the comment of Bob, notify 1666 from content sites
1660 are sent to Alice, and instruction Christie has made comment to the video of Alice.Notify that 1666 may include
Comment content (" the That's neat of Christie！") and link for checking the comment on content sites 1660
1668.In addition, the model of Christie causes to notify 1670 to be sent to Bob, instruction Christie has had responded to Bob pairs
The comment of the video of Alice.Since Bob interacts (comment) in content sites 1660, so notifying 1670 to be defined as coming
It from content sites 1660, and may include the link for checking the reply of Christie in content sites 1660, even if
Christie is to generate the reply in social networks 1662.
When comment of the David in content sites reply Christie, 1672 are notified to be sent to from content sites
Alice, instruction David have made comment to the video of Alice.Christie receives instruction David and has responded to
Its model notifies 1674.However, since Christie is issued in social networks 1662, so while David's returns
1674 are notified to be had been defined as being sent to Christie from social networks caused by multiple, even if David is returned in content sites
Multiple Christie.Notify that 1674 may include the link for the reply in social networks viewing David.In addition, Alice is from interior
That holds that website receives that instruction David quotes in comment/be marked Alice notifies 1676.Bob also connects from content sites
Receive that instruction David quotes in comment/be marked Bob notifies 1678.
It demonstrate,proves as discussed, a kind of system can be configured to determine that each user thinks the location of its (for example, net
Stand, system, property, using etc.) (that is, interactive position has been carried out in user), and thought based on user be locating for it
It unites to route to each user and notify.Notice from social networks will be for example in the Email from social networks, and
And social network page will be linked to, and the notice from content site then will be among the Email from content site
And content will be linked to and check the page.It will be appreciated that individual part may cause the never homologous arrival difference of notice
People, this is because source depends on the visual angle of recipient.In general, notice can be perceived based on recipient application and from each
Notice source is routed.
Other than it can show as the notice from multiple sources, best source may be determined there are also several, is provided here
It some examples but is not intended as limiting.For example, when user and specific comment thread (publication+comment, also referred to as to some interior
The comment of appearance is plus its reply) when interacting, each such interaction can be identified from the position that it occurs, and the letter
It ceases and is stored together with the information about user's interaction.
If user with comment thread interacted, source position be considered user and comment thread into
First (alternatively, recently) position of row interaction.The first position may be advantageous, because the first position is stable
And it will not change over time, even if the user interacts in multiple positions with thread, user is carried out in multiple position
Say it is predictable.However, can be advantageous in terms of being made a response to user behavior using proximal most position.
If user interacts with comment thread not yet, default source position can be defined.Alternatively, the source
Position is considered the position that parents' interaction (that is, model itself) occurs.
By depending on the never homologous routing notice of interaction locations that recipient is perceived, notification method as described herein
Allow user to feel with system and seem that they are applied using individual, or even just as the data for defining model/comment etc. exist
Movement is smoothly carried out between them.It, which has technical effect that, enables the recipient to be sensitive to the interaction position before of recipient
The mode set receives notice, even if the notice may describes the activity occurred in different location.This is the reception of notice
Side provides the continuity to make moderate progress and feels.
The already discussed above method audited for the display to new comment/model related with content item and it is
System.In other embodiment, comment stream can be presented in one of two views：It is presented to the user of the viewer of content
View；And audit side is presented to make the inbox in relation to the comment/model decision that do not seen by general viewer
View.The common user for accessing the system will be presented with User.Authorized audit side is (for example, stream and content item
The owner or its representative are authorized as any number of individuals, circles or the group of other audit side) it then can also be by
There is provided with allow they refuse arbitrary content show or access not yet be shown still audit side can ratify (so that they
Can be seen by common user) or refusal (completely abandon) item inbox view control.In addition, in inbox view
In item may require the side of audit concern in the case where alarm indicator can be provided.Inbox view can be further subdivided
For multiple views or part, each correspond to why certain contents appear in the difference not shown to user in inbox
Reason.
In order to realize above content, certain status informations are kept for every comment.Particularly, defining indicates that the mankind examine
The audit state of decision made by core side and the spam shape for indicating decision made by spam/abuse system
State.Define four kinds of different audit states：Newly, it keeps, ratify and refuses.Define three kinds of different spam states：It is non-
Spam may be spam and be spam certainly.It is illegal or legal that spam state recognition, which goes out to comment on,
A possibility that.Although particularly describing three kinds of spam states in the present embodiment, it will be appreciated that,
There may be other states in other embodiment.For example, it may be possible to there is any number of spam state (there are two types of at least requiring
State) or spam state successive range.Spam state can by be indicated to accepted opinion opinion be spam or
And the digital legitimacy score of a possibility that non-spam email (illegal or legal) is defined or is referred to it.This
Outside, spam state can be defined by the particular range of such numeric scores.Audit state and spam state into
One step is described with reference to Figure 17 A, and which illustrates foundation embodiment of the present disclosure for handling and auditing the side newly commented on
Method.
In operation 1700, new comment is generated.In operation 1702, determine whether the new comment is spam certainly.If
It is, then in operation 1704, the comment to be removed from system；If it is not, then determining the comment whether from careful in operation 1706
It core side perhaps can user.If so, then operating 1708, by the comment labeled as approval.The owner can be by any people column
Table (personal user, circle, group etc.) is appointed as other audit side.Any lists of persons can also be appointed as certainly by the owner
It is dynamic to go through.Any comment that these users are carried out all is assigned to sanctions status.This can go beyond general discussed below
Comment is determined labeled as the rule and spam and abuse kept, and therefore user appointed in this way is trusted
Family.
If operation 1706 determine the comment be not originate from audit side perhaps can user, operation 1710 determination this
Whether comment is derived from forbidden user.If it is, in operation 1712, then by the comment labeled as refusal.Audit can
Certain user to be appointed as being prohibited, and any comment that these users are carried out all is assigned to disarmed state.
If determining that the comment is not originate from forbidden user in operation 1710, determine whether to answer in operation 1714
With holding rule.If it is, in operation 1716, by the comment labeled as holding.Being marked as the comment kept, there are no quilts
Audit side clearly disposes, and as determined by audit side it is preassigned rule and be kept to be audited.It (keeps
The other example of rule is presented below).The comment for being marked as keeping is not shown in User, but in inbox
It is shown in view (appended drawing reference 1724) to allow audit side to decide whether the comment labeled as approval or refusal (appended drawing reference
1726)。
If determining that application does not keep rule in operation 1714, in operation 1718, by the comment labeled as new.It is marked
New comment is denoted as to be disposed the side of being reviewed not yet.In operation 1720, determine whether the comment may be spam.If
It is not spam, then in operation 1722, which is shown in User.If the comment is confirmed as may be rubbish
Mail, then by it from hiding in User and being shown in inbox view (appended drawing reference 1724), so as to finally by examining
The disposition of core side is by the comment labeled as approval or refusal.
Figure 17 B illustrates instruction according to embodiment of the present disclosure for determining display comment or regarding it from user
The flow chart for the method hidden in figure.In operation 1730, the audit state of comment is determined.If audit state be it is new, grasping
Make 1732, determines whether the comment may be spam.If it is not, then showing that this is commented in User in operation 1734
By；If it is, the comment is hidden from User in operation 1736.
If the audit state of the comment is approval, in operation 1734, no matter how its spam state all exists
The comment is shown in User.
If the audit state of the comment is refusal, in operation 1738, the current use for watching User is determined
Family whether be the comment author.If it is, showing the comment (appended drawing reference 1734) in User；If it is not, then
The comment is hidden into (appended drawing reference 1736) from User.Being marked as the comment refused, the side of being reviewed is refused
(being clearly rejected, or because the author of the comment is forbidden user).The comment is not usually in User or receipts
It is shown in part case.However, they still should see it in User when the author of the comment watches it.With this
Mode, the author for the content being rejected are not given any visible instruction that its content has been rejected.It is advantageous in this way,
Because the user that its content is rejected can be filled with indignation and attempt to make reprisals quickly, such as by creating new dummy account simultaneously
And the harmful content that publication is other.However, then simply being showed to them when they are prohibited in a manner of being previously mentioned before
It is successfully made publication for them, but nobody forms with them and interacts.
Various embodiments may include for other feature or modification above.It is commented for example, can provide and keep all
The option of opinion, wherein all new comments are all marked as hold mode, unless another rule has gone beyond it (for example, being licensed
User is prohibited user).
In addition, the owner can provide the list for being defined as the word and/or phrase of bad word.If comment includes
With the content of any of these bad word approximate matches, hold mode will be placed in rather than new state.It can use various
Semantic matches technology determines whether given comment includes content with bad word or expression approximate match predetermined.
It is noted that comment may have reply in different states.Usually it is envisioned that should received if comment has
Visible child in part case view, the then for clarity, comment itself is also shown there.For example, if comment goes through,
And someone it has been made be marked as keep reply, then the comment-rather than its reply-will in User quilt
It shows；And in inbox view, the comment and reply will all be shown, have the comment itself gone through but its time
Recover the indicator being not approved for.
In addition, when modifying to existing comment, it, can be by described above if gone through before it
It is carried out for determining the processing of its state.However, state does not become if being any other state before it
Change.The configuration prevent its comment be rejected someone pass through continuous editorial review and send it back to so as to assess again to
Send out spam in audit side.
Figure 18 is the schematic diagram for implementing the computer system of embodiment of the present disclosure.It should be appreciated that this
In described method can use digital processing system to execute, can be conventional general meter in one embodiment
Calculation machine system.It alternatively can be used and be designed or programmed only to execute a kind of special purpose computer of function.Calculate equipment
1950 include processor 1954, is coupled to memory 1956 by bus, permanently stores 1958 and input/output (I/O) connects
Mouth 1960.
Permanently store 1958 expression persistent data storage devices, for example, can be Local or Remote hard disk drive or
Usb driver.Network interface 1962 provides connection via network 1964, this permission communicated with other equipment (it is wired or
Wirelessly).It should be appreciated that processor 1954 can be by with the logic of general processor, application specific processor or dedicated programmed
Equipment embodies.Input/output (I/O) interface 1960 provides the communication with different peripheral and passes through bus and processor
1954, it memory 1956 and 1958 is permanently stored is attached.Peripheral hardware as sample include display 1972, keyboard 1968,
Mouse 1970, removable media device 1966 etc..
Display 1972 is configured as showing user interface as described herein.Keyboard 1968, mouse 1970, removable matchmaker
Body equipment 1966 and other peripheral hardwares are coupled to I/O interface 1960 to exchange information with processor 1954.It should be recognized that
It is to be to and from the data of external equipment to be transmitted by I/O interface 1960.Embodiment of the present disclosure can also divide
Cloth calculates to be practiced in environment, and wherein task is as performed by the remote processing devices linked by wired or wireless network.
Embodiment of the present disclosure can be built as computer-readable in non-transitory computer-readable storage media
Code.Non-transitory computer-readable storage media preservation can be by the read data of computer system.Non-transitory calculates
The example of machine readable storage medium storing program for executing includes permanently storing 1958, network attached storage (NAS), read-only in memory module 1956
Memory or random access memory, compact disk (CD), blue lightTMDisk, flash drive, hard disk drive, tape and other
Data storage device.Non-transitory computer-readable storage media can be distributed in the computer system by network-coupled
So that the computer-readable code is stored and executed in a distributed way.
Some or all operations of method presented herein are executed by processor.Although in addition, this method operation with
Specific order is described it should be appreciated that when the sequence of operation has no effect on expected results, some operations can be with
It is executed with different order.As long as may include in the method proposed in addition, the processing of operation executes in a desired manner
Other operations, and the operation can be executed by different entities in a distributed way.
In addition, the operation of at least one of certain methods executes the physical manipulation of physical quantity, and as described herein one
A little operations are useful machine operations.Embodiments set forth herein refers to device.The device can be for institute
It is required that purpose especially constructed or be can be general purpose computer.The device includes being able to carry out calculating presented herein
The processor of the program instruction of machine program.
In addition a number of other equipment, storage and the service that can connect to network 1964 are shown.Network 1964 for example may be used
To be internet.The internet is interconnected with multiple equipment, including cloud storage service device, cloud logical server, user interface
Equipment etc..The some equipment that can be communicated on various cloud logical servers and cloud storage with the Internet access service are for example
It may include tablet computer, smart phone, kneetop computer, desktop computer, television system etc..It can communicate with each other
Equipment at least needs processor, and from selected program and shows the user interface view of the user interface for rendering
Display.The user interface can be provided by keyboard typing, Characters, voice input and their combination.
User interface can be presented in the browser of various equipment, can explain HTML code, can show video, energy
It is enough communicated by internet using wireless communication, Flash video data, etc. can be shown.All these equipment, hardware
Embodiment and code are configured to make it possible to the user with social networks and social networks and are connected to internet
User on various websites is docked and is interacted.Related current information, sharing will be supported by the interaction that social networks carries out
Interest, chat communication, video communication electronic information relevant with general publication, interest and relation management.More broadly, social
Network is that at least two people or entity is allowed to communicate with each other and share the website of at least one data.
Although for purposes of clarity and with some level-of-detail to embodiments above have been description, notes
It anticipates and arrives, certain change and modification can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.Therefore, provided embodiment is wanted
It is understood to be illustrative and not restrictive, is not limited by the details given herein, and can be in appended right
It is required that range and equivalent form in modify.
Claims (20)
1. it is a kind of for summarizing interactive method, including：
It receives for generating the first publication data item so as to the request shown in first position, the first publication data item includes
Reference corresponding to the link for being directed toward the content item positioned at the second position；
Based on the reference to the content item, content designator associated with the content item is determined；
The content designator is associated with the publication data item；
Based on the one or more additional publication data item of content designator retrieval, wherein one or more of additional publications
Each of data item includes drawing corresponding to another of identical link being directed toward in the content item of the second position
With；And
With one or more of author or one or more of additional publication data item based on the first publication data item
A additional author whether the sequence in the social graph of viewer associated with the second position, in the second position
The first publication data item and one or more of additional publication data item are provided.
2. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein retrieving one or more of additional publication data item includes that search is more
A publication data item is to identify publication data item associated with the content designator.
3. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein determining that the content designator includes the institute executed to the content item
The lookup of reference is stated to identify corresponding standardization ID.
4. according to the method described in claim 1,
It is wherein the uniform resource locator (URL) of the content item to the reference of the content item；And
Wherein the content designator is serial data.
5. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein the content designator associated with the content item is in described
Hold the URL of item.
6. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein the content item is from by video, article, image, audio file, text
Item, webpage, collections of web pages select in group composed by the combination of any two or more in them.
7. according to the method described in claim 1, wherein retrieving one or more of additional publication data item and providing institute
One or more additional publication data item are stated to be in response in the request for accessing the second position.
8. according to the method described in claim 7, further comprising
The social graph of the first user is accessed, first user generates the request for accessing the second position；And
And
Preferentially provide one or more that the secondary user in the social graph by first user retrieved generates
Selected publication data item in a additional publication data item.
9. according to the method described in claim 1, further comprising
The sanctions status of new publication data item is set to show in the second position；And
Wherein retrieving one or more of additional publication data item includes identifying one or more of additional publication data item
The sanctions status.
10. according to the method described in claim 1,
Wherein the first position is defined by the first webpage；And
Wherein the second position is defined by the second webpage.
11. it is a kind of for summarizing interactive method, including：
The request for generating publication data item in first position is received, the publication data item includes to positioned at the second position
The reference of content item；
Determine that the publication data item of the first position publishes data item or private publication data item；
When the publication data item is to publish data item：
Access notified tag associated with the content item, the destination of the notified tag identification notice；
It sends and notifies to the destination, the notice identification is quoted in the publication data item of the first position
The content item of the second position；And
When the publication data item is private publication data item：
Determination does not send notice.
12. according to the method for claim 11,
Wherein the first position is defined by social network page；
Wherein the second position is defined by content page；And
Wherein the social network page does not share shared domain with the content page.
13. according to the method for claim 11, wherein the destination is by e-mail address, user name or social network
The one or more in user identifier on network is defined.
14. according to the method for claim 11, wherein the notice provides the access to audit interface to ratify or not
Ratify the publication data item to show in the second place.
15. according to the method for claim 11, wherein the reference to the content item is URL.
16. according to the method for claim 11, wherein the content item is selected from image, video, audio or text.
17. according to the method for claim 11, further comprising being mentioned in the stream of publication data item in the second position
For the publication data item, the stream of the publication data item is configured to summarize the publication for quoting the content item from multiple positions
Data item.
18. a kind of computer system, including one or more processors and one or more memories, wherein one or more
In a memory or in which each there is the computer-readable code that is stored thereon, the computer-readable code works as quilt
When performed by one or more of processors, appoint in -10 according to claim 1 so that one or more of processors execute
Method described in one.
19. a kind of computer system, including one or more processors and one or more memories, wherein one or more
In a memory or in which each there is the computer-readable code that is stored thereon, the computer-readable code works as quilt
When performed by one or more of processors, so that one or more of processors execute in 1-17 according to claim 1
Described in any item methods.
20. a kind of computer readable storage medium with the computer-readable code being stored thereon, described computer-readable
Code is when performed by one or more processors, so that one or more of processors execute according to claim 1-17
Any one of described in method.
Priority Applications (1)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811332010.XA CN110111063B (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Summarizing interactions for content items |
Applications Claiming Priority (5)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US201261745179P | 2012-12-21 | 2012-12-21 | |
US61/745,179 | 2012-12-21 | ||
US14/073,860 | 2013-11-06 | ||
US14/073,860 US9935910B2 (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-11-06 | Recipient location aware notifications in response to related posts |
PCT/US2013/077341 WO2014100782A1 (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Aggregating interactions for content items |
Related Child Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811332010.XA Division CN110111063B (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Summarizing interactions for content items |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
CN104981792A CN104981792A (en) | 2015-10-14 |
CN104981792B true CN104981792B (en) | 2018-11-23 |
Family
ID=50979300
Family Applications (2)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201380067096.7A Active CN104981792B (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Summarize interaction for content item |
CN201811332010.XA Active CN110111063B (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Summarizing interactions for content items |
Family Applications After (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
CN201811332010.XA Active CN110111063B (en) | 2012-12-21 | 2013-12-21 | Summarizing interactions for content items |
Country Status (9)
Country | Link |
---|---|
US (2) | US9935910B2 (en) |
EP (1) | EP2936331A4 (en) |
JP (2) | JP6342423B2 (en) |
KR (1) | KR102250614B1 (en) |
CN (2) | CN104981792B (en) |
AU (1) | AU2013363989B2 (en) |
BR (1) | BR112015014925A8 (en) |
CA (1) | CA2893772C (en) |
WO (1) | WO2014100782A1 (en) |
Families Citing this family (47)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
WO2021220058A1 (en) | 2020-05-01 | 2021-11-04 | Monday.com Ltd. | Digital processing systems and methods for enhanced collaborative workflow and networking systems, methods, and devices |
US8880640B2 (en) * | 2011-06-20 | 2014-11-04 | Facebook, Inc. | Social mode for managing communications between a mobile device and a social networking system |
US9935910B2 (en) * | 2012-12-21 | 2018-04-03 | Google Llc | Recipient location aware notifications in response to related posts |
JP6048977B2 (en) * | 2014-12-01 | 2016-12-21 | ビッグローブ株式会社 | Site summary method, site summary system, information processing apparatus, and program |
US10397166B2 (en) * | 2015-01-06 | 2019-08-27 | International Business Machines Corporation | Saving communication content to a social network environment |
US10296646B2 (en) * | 2015-03-16 | 2019-05-21 | International Business Machines Corporation | Techniques for filtering content presented in a web browser using content analytics |
US10229219B2 (en) * | 2015-05-01 | 2019-03-12 | Facebook, Inc. | Systems and methods for demotion of content items in a feed |
WO2016191912A1 (en) | 2015-05-29 | 2016-12-08 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Comment-centered news reader |
US11516159B2 (en) | 2015-05-29 | 2022-11-29 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Systems and methods for providing a comment-centered news reader |
US10097631B2 (en) * | 2015-07-17 | 2018-10-09 | Facebook, Inc. | Synchronizing conversation threads corresponding to a common content item |
US10223460B2 (en) * | 2015-08-25 | 2019-03-05 | Google Llc | Application partial deep link to a corresponding resource |
KR20170035755A (en) * | 2015-09-23 | 2017-03-31 | 엘지전자 주식회사 | Mobile terminal and method for controlling the same |
CN106649345A (en) | 2015-10-30 | 2017-05-10 | 微软技术许可有限责任公司 | Automatic session creator for news |
US10057198B1 (en) * | 2015-11-05 | 2018-08-21 | Trend Micro Incorporated | Controlling social network usage in enterprise environments |
CN105516236A (en) * | 2015-11-18 | 2016-04-20 | 小米科技有限责任公司 | Message push method and device |
US10846475B2 (en) * | 2015-12-23 | 2020-11-24 | Beijing Xinmei Hutong Technology Co., Ltd. | Emoji input method and device thereof |
US10319049B2 (en) * | 2016-02-24 | 2019-06-11 | Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC | Re-sharing media content on a network |
US10725626B2 (en) * | 2016-10-05 | 2020-07-28 | Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. | Systems and methods for chat message management and document generation on devices |
US10872088B2 (en) | 2017-01-30 | 2020-12-22 | Apple Inc. | Domain based influence scoring |
US10558950B2 (en) * | 2017-05-15 | 2020-02-11 | Google Llc | Automatic context passing between applications |
US20180337929A1 (en) * | 2017-05-17 | 2018-11-22 | Bank Of America Corporation | Access Control in a Hybrid Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Technology |
USD883300S1 (en) * | 2017-05-22 | 2020-05-05 | Subsplash Ip, Llc | Display screen or portion thereof with graphical user interface |
USD878386S1 (en) * | 2017-05-22 | 2020-03-17 | Subsplash Ip, Llc | Display screen or portion thereof with transitional graphical user interface |
US10521278B2 (en) | 2017-09-26 | 2019-12-31 | Google Llc | Format-specific data object passing between applications |
JP6905084B2 (en) * | 2017-09-29 | 2021-07-21 | ドロップボックス， インコーポレイテッド | Manage content item collections |
US10922426B2 (en) | 2017-09-29 | 2021-02-16 | Dropbox, Inc. | Managing content item collections |
US10592595B2 (en) | 2017-09-29 | 2020-03-17 | Dropbox, Inc. | Maintaining multiple versions of a collection of content items |
US11222162B2 (en) | 2017-09-29 | 2022-01-11 | Dropbox, Inc. | Managing content item collections |
US11038973B2 (en) | 2017-10-19 | 2021-06-15 | Dropbox, Inc. | Contact event feeds and activity updates |
US10902527B2 (en) * | 2017-11-15 | 2021-01-26 | International Business Machines Corporation | Collaborative multiuser publishing of social media posts |
CN108205457B (en) * | 2017-12-29 | 2021-05-11 | 北京奇虎科技有限公司 | Method and system for setting area presentation content based on configuration file |
US11483313B2 (en) * | 2018-06-28 | 2022-10-25 | Intel Corporation | Technologies for updating an access control list table without causing disruption |
US11698890B2 (en) | 2018-07-04 | 2023-07-11 | Monday.com Ltd. | System and method for generating a column-oriented data structure repository for columns of single data types |
US11106934B2 (en) * | 2019-02-11 | 2021-08-31 | Innovaccer Inc. | Automatic visual display overlays of contextually related data from multiple applications |
US11301115B2 (en) * | 2019-04-04 | 2022-04-12 | Twitter, Inc. | Determining most relevant accounts in a conversation |
US11301923B2 (en) * | 2019-08-05 | 2022-04-12 | Yahoo Assets Llc | Automatic web browsing in electronic messaging interface method and apparatus |
US11677703B2 (en) | 2019-08-15 | 2023-06-13 | Rovi Guides, Inc. | Systems and methods for automatically identifying spam in social media comments based on context |
US11258741B2 (en) * | 2019-08-15 | 2022-02-22 | Rovi Guides, Inc. | Systems and methods for automatically identifying spam in social media comments |
CN110708294A (en) * | 2019-09-12 | 2020-01-17 | 上海掌门科技有限公司 | Interactive information issuing and processing method and device, electronic equipment and medium |
US20210150135A1 (en) | 2019-11-18 | 2021-05-20 | Monday.Com | Digital processing systems and methods for integrated graphs in cells of collaborative work system tables |
US11829953B1 (en) | 2020-05-01 | 2023-11-28 | Monday.com Ltd. | Digital processing systems and methods for managing sprints using linked electronic boards |
US11785305B2 (en) * | 2020-12-24 | 2023-10-10 | Meta Platforms, Inc. | Target user identification and management of distributed and published content |
US11397847B1 (en) | 2021-01-14 | 2022-07-26 | Monday.com Ltd. | Digital processing systems and methods for display pane scroll locking during collaborative document editing in collaborative work systems |
CN112905932A (en) * | 2021-01-29 | 2021-06-04 | 上海观察者信息技术有限公司 | Positioning method, device, medium, terminal and server of reply information |
US11741071B1 (en) | 2022-12-28 | 2023-08-29 | Monday.com Ltd. | Digital processing systems and methods for navigating and viewing displayed content |
US11886683B1 (en) | 2022-12-30 | 2024-01-30 | Monday.com Ltd | Digital processing systems and methods for presenting board graphics |
US11893381B1 (en) | 2023-02-21 | 2024-02-06 | Monday.com Ltd | Digital processing systems and methods for reducing file bundle sizes |
Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN101458710A (en) * | 2008-12-25 | 2009-06-17 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Method and device for displaying website comment |
CN102299916A (en) * | 2010-06-25 | 2011-12-28 | 微软公司 | Product conversations among social groups |
CN102693242A (en) * | 2011-03-25 | 2012-09-26 | 开心人网络科技（北京）有限公司 | Network comment information sharing method and system |
CN104395896A (en) * | 2012-06-19 | 2015-03-04 | 英派尔科技开发有限公司 | Automatic content forwarding to communication networks |
Family Cites Families (80)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US5724567A (en) | 1994-04-25 | 1998-03-03 | Apple Computer, Inc. | System for directing relevance-ranked data objects to computer users |
JP3785133B2 (en) | 1996-02-29 | 2006-06-14 | 株式会社東芝 | Information sharing support method |
US7069308B2 (en) | 2003-06-16 | 2006-06-27 | Friendster, Inc. | System, method and apparatus for connecting users in an online computer system based on their relationships within social networks |
US20050203801A1 (en) | 2003-11-26 | 2005-09-15 | Jared Morgenstern | Method and system for collecting, sharing and tracking user or group associates content via a communications network |
US20050198305A1 (en) | 2004-03-04 | 2005-09-08 | Peter Pezaris | Method and system for associating a thread with content in a social networking environment |
US7669123B2 (en) | 2006-08-11 | 2010-02-23 | Facebook, Inc. | Dynamically providing a news feed about a user of a social network |
US7945653B2 (en) | 2006-10-11 | 2011-05-17 | Facebook, Inc. | Tagging digital media |
US7809685B2 (en) | 2006-04-21 | 2010-10-05 | Ricoh Co., Ltd. | Secure and efficient methods for logging and synchronizing data exchanges |
GB0610116D0 (en) | 2006-05-20 | 2006-06-28 | Ibm | A method, apparatus and computer program for collaborative editing of a document |
JP2008083969A (en) * | 2006-09-27 | 2008-04-10 | Gaiax Co Ltd | Data management system, data management method in data management system, data management device constituting data management system, and data holding device |
US8832277B2 (en) | 2006-11-30 | 2014-09-09 | Red Hat, Inc. | Community tagging of a multimedia stream and linking to related content |
US20080250327A1 (en) | 2007-04-09 | 2008-10-09 | Microsoft Corporation | Content commenting and monetization |
US8972458B2 (en) | 2007-08-09 | 2015-03-03 | Yahoo! Inc. | Systems and methods for comments aggregation and carryover in word pages |
WO2009055825A1 (en) | 2007-10-26 | 2009-04-30 | Facebook, Inc. | Sharing digital content on a social network |
JP2009169788A (en) * | 2008-01-18 | 2009-07-30 | Hitachi Information Systems Ltd | Web server, web server system and track back control method |
US7882201B2 (en) | 2008-03-31 | 2011-02-01 | Verizon Patent And Licensing Inc. | Location based content aggregation and distribution systems and methods |
US8407286B2 (en) * | 2008-05-15 | 2013-03-26 | Yahoo! Inc. | Method and apparatus for utilizing social network information for showing reviews |
US20090324022A1 (en) | 2008-06-25 | 2009-12-31 | Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ab | Method and Apparatus for Tagging Images and Providing Notifications When Images are Tagged |
JP2010079347A (en) | 2008-09-24 | 2010-04-08 | C2Cube Inc | Information processing apparatus, information processing method, and program |
US8375024B2 (en) * | 2008-11-13 | 2013-02-12 | Buzzient, Inc. | Modeling social networks using analytic measurements of online social media content |
US20100132049A1 (en) | 2008-11-26 | 2010-05-27 | Facebook, Inc. | Leveraging a social graph from a social network for social context in other systems |
US9110953B2 (en) | 2009-03-04 | 2015-08-18 | Facebook, Inc. | Filtering content in a social networking service |
US20100318571A1 (en) * | 2009-06-16 | 2010-12-16 | Leah Pearlman | Selective Content Accessibility in a Social Network |
US20110004692A1 (en) | 2009-07-01 | 2011-01-06 | Tom Occhino | Gathering Information about Connections in a Social Networking Service |
US20110191406A1 (en) | 2009-08-07 | 2011-08-04 | Thomas Plunkett | Commenting method and system |
US8745067B2 (en) | 2009-08-12 | 2014-06-03 | Google Inc. | Presenting comments from various sources |
WO2011019296A1 (en) | 2009-08-12 | 2011-02-17 | Google Inc. | User interface for web comments |
US8533175B2 (en) | 2009-08-13 | 2013-09-10 | Gilbert Marquard ROSWELL | Temporal and geographic presentation and navigation of linked cultural, artistic, and historic content |
US8306922B1 (en) | 2009-10-01 | 2012-11-06 | Google Inc. | Detecting content on a social network using links |
US8997006B2 (en) * | 2009-12-23 | 2015-03-31 | Facebook, Inc. | Interface for sharing posts about a live online event among users of a social networking system |
US8527496B2 (en) | 2010-02-11 | 2013-09-03 | Facebook, Inc. | Real time content searching in social network |
US8250145B2 (en) | 2010-04-21 | 2012-08-21 | Facebook, Inc. | Personalizing a web page outside of a social networking system with content from the social networking system |
US8515255B2 (en) * | 2010-04-24 | 2013-08-20 | Walker Digital, Llc | Systems and methods for enhancing media with supplemental content |
US9177346B2 (en) * | 2010-07-01 | 2015-11-03 | Facebook, Inc. | Facilitating interaction among users of a social network |
US8150844B2 (en) | 2010-08-18 | 2012-04-03 | Facebook, Inc. | Location ranking using social graph information |
US9240020B2 (en) | 2010-08-24 | 2016-01-19 | Yahoo! Inc. | Method of recommending content via social signals |
US9531803B2 (en) * | 2010-11-01 | 2016-12-27 | Google Inc. | Content sharing interface for sharing content in social networks |
US9497154B2 (en) | 2010-12-13 | 2016-11-15 | Facebook, Inc. | Measuring social network-based interaction with web content external to a social networking system |
US20120150971A1 (en) | 2010-12-13 | 2012-06-14 | Microsoft Corporation | Presenting notifications of content items shared by social network contacts |
US9153000B2 (en) | 2010-12-13 | 2015-10-06 | Microsoft Technology Licensing, Llc | Presenting content items shared within social networks |
KR20120071680A (en) * | 2010-12-23 | 2012-07-03 | 에스케이플래닛 주식회사 | Method for sharing object related with social network service, apparatus and system thereof |
US10390090B2 (en) | 2010-12-30 | 2019-08-20 | Sony Corporation | System and method for social interaction about content items such as movies |
US9123080B2 (en) * | 2011-01-27 | 2015-09-01 | Google Inc. | Content access control in social network |
US9792657B2 (en) | 2011-03-01 | 2017-10-17 | Amobee, Inc. | Methods and systems for leveraging social information, including a social graph, to identify and present content of interest |
KR101729633B1 (en) * | 2011-03-03 | 2017-04-24 | 삼성전자주식회사 | Apparatus and method for sharing contents of social network service in communicatino system |
CN102760129A (en) * | 2011-04-27 | 2012-10-31 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Network map comment information displaying method and device, and information processing system |
US9037700B2 (en) | 2011-04-29 | 2015-05-19 | International Business Machines Corporation | Predictive placement of content through network analysis |
US20120284649A1 (en) * | 2011-05-05 | 2012-11-08 | Norman Jay Levy | System for recording and broadcasting audio messages to social networks, web, blog spaces and quick response codes |
US20120304117A1 (en) | 2011-05-27 | 2012-11-29 | Donahue Tyler J | Application Notification Tags |
US8880640B2 (en) | 2011-06-20 | 2014-11-04 | Facebook, Inc. | Social mode for managing communications between a mobile device and a social networking system |
US8756278B2 (en) | 2011-07-10 | 2014-06-17 | Facebook, Inc. | Audience management in a social networking system |
US9256859B2 (en) | 2011-07-26 | 2016-02-09 | Salesforce.Com, Inc. | Systems and methods for fragmenting newsfeed objects |
US20130055056A1 (en) * | 2011-08-30 | 2013-02-28 | Google Inc. | System and Method for Searching Belongings Using Social Graph Information |
US8732255B2 (en) | 2011-09-09 | 2014-05-20 | Facebook, Inc. | Dynamically created shared spaces |
US20130066711A1 (en) | 2011-09-09 | 2013-03-14 | c/o Facebook, Inc. | Understanding Effects of a Communication Propagated Through a Social Networking System |
US9397974B1 (en) | 2011-12-08 | 2016-07-19 | UberMedia, Inc. | Microblogging system and method for resending posts |
JP5422638B2 (en) * | 2011-12-16 | 2014-02-19 | 株式会社東芝 | Electronic apparatus and information distribution method |
US9117249B2 (en) | 2012-03-15 | 2015-08-25 | Facebook, Inc. | Selectively providing content on a social networking system |
US8856248B2 (en) | 2012-04-05 | 2014-10-07 | Facebook, Inc. | Methods and systems for optimizing engagement with a social network |
US20150127748A1 (en) * | 2012-04-13 | 2015-05-07 | Google Inc. | Recommendations for enhanced content in social posts |
US8886836B2 (en) | 2012-06-12 | 2014-11-11 | Facebook, Inc. | Providing a multi-column newsfeed of content on a social networking system |
US9317869B2 (en) | 2012-07-19 | 2016-04-19 | Facebook, Inc. | Identifying consumer segments using a social networking system |
US9282153B2 (en) | 2012-07-19 | 2016-03-08 | Empire Technology Development Llc | Content suggestion for posting on communication network |
US20140059126A1 (en) | 2012-08-21 | 2014-02-27 | Avaya Inc. | Context aware social callback |
US20140095509A1 (en) | 2012-10-02 | 2014-04-03 | Banjo, Inc. | Method of tagging content lacking geotags with a location |
US9606717B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-03-28 | Facebook, Inc. | Content composer |
US9218188B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2015-12-22 | Facebook, Inc. | Animation sequence associated with feedback user-interface element |
US9235321B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2016-01-12 | Facebook, Inc. | Animation sequence associated with content item |
US9696898B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-07-04 | Facebook, Inc. | Scrolling through a series of content items |
US9606695B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-03-28 | Facebook, Inc. | Event notification |
US9607289B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-03-28 | Facebook, Inc. | Content type filter |
US9547627B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-01-17 | Facebook, Inc. | Comment presentation |
US9547416B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-01-17 | Facebook, Inc. | Image presentation |
US9684935B2 (en) | 2012-11-14 | 2017-06-20 | Facebook, Inc. | Content composer for third-party applications |
US20140149884A1 (en) | 2012-11-26 | 2014-05-29 | William Joseph Flynn, III | User-Based Interactive Elements |
US20140149215A1 (en) | 2012-11-29 | 2014-05-29 | Giridhar Rajaram | Determining keywords for content items |
US9391944B2 (en) | 2012-12-14 | 2016-07-12 | Facebook, Inc. | Suggesting opt-out of notifications to users of a social networking system |
US10397162B2 (en) | 2012-12-14 | 2019-08-27 | Facebook, Inc. | Sending notifications to members of social group in a social networking system |
US9935910B2 (en) * | 2012-12-21 | 2018-04-03 | Google Llc | Recipient location aware notifications in response to related posts |
US10249007B2 (en) | 2012-12-28 | 2019-04-02 | Facebook, Inc. | Social cover feed interface |
-
2013
- 2013-11-06 US US14/073,860 patent/US9935910B2/en not_active Expired - Fee Related
- 2013-12-21 EP EP13866210.1A patent/EP2936331A4/en not_active Withdrawn
- 2013-12-21 JP JP2015549849A patent/JP6342423B2/en active Active
- 2013-12-21 CA CA2893772A patent/CA2893772C/en not_active Expired - Fee Related
- 2013-12-21 WO PCT/US2013/077341 patent/WO2014100782A1/en active Application Filing
- 2013-12-21 BR BR112015014925A patent/BR112015014925A8/en not_active Application Discontinuation
- 2013-12-21 CN CN201380067096.7A patent/CN104981792B/en active Active
- 2013-12-21 CN CN201811332010.XA patent/CN110111063B/en active Active
- 2013-12-21 KR KR1020157019312A patent/KR102250614B1/en active IP Right Grant
- 2013-12-21 AU AU2013363989A patent/AU2013363989B2/en not_active Ceased
-
2018
- 2018-03-07 JP JP2018040692A patent/JP6553225B2/en active Active
- 2018-03-14 US US15/921,567 patent/US10666597B2/en active Active
Patent Citations (4)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN101458710A (en) * | 2008-12-25 | 2009-06-17 | 腾讯科技（深圳）有限公司 | Method and device for displaying website comment |
CN102299916A (en) * | 2010-06-25 | 2011-12-28 | 微软公司 | Product conversations among social groups |
CN102693242A (en) * | 2011-03-25 | 2012-09-26 | 开心人网络科技（北京）有限公司 | Network comment information sharing method and system |
CN104395896A (en) * | 2012-06-19 | 2015-03-04 | 英派尔科技开发有限公司 | Automatic content forwarding to communication networks |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
CA2893772C (en) | 2021-01-26 |
BR112015014925A8 (en) | 2021-06-01 |
US10666597B2 (en) | 2020-05-26 |
JP2018113056A (en) | 2018-07-19 |
US20160142358A1 (en) | 2016-05-19 |
CN110111063A (en) | 2019-08-09 |
EP2936331A1 (en) | 2015-10-28 |
KR102250614B1 (en) | 2021-05-10 |
US20180205692A1 (en) | 2018-07-19 |
AU2013363989A1 (en) | 2015-05-28 |
KR20150100760A (en) | 2015-09-02 |
US9935910B2 (en) | 2018-04-03 |
AU2013363989B2 (en) | 2019-11-07 |
JP6553225B2 (en) | 2019-07-31 |
CA2893772A1 (en) | 2014-06-26 |
JP2016504688A (en) | 2016-02-12 |
CN110111063B (en) | 2023-10-20 |
CN104981792A (en) | 2015-10-14 |
EP2936331A4 (en) | 2016-08-03 |
JP6342423B2 (en) | 2018-06-13 |
BR112015014925A2 (en) | 2017-07-11 |
WO2014100782A1 (en) | 2014-06-26 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
CN104981792B (en) | Summarize interaction for content item | |
US8380801B2 (en) | System for targeting third party content to users based on social networks | |
US9325653B1 (en) | Notifying content owners of related posts | |
US9191355B2 (en) | Computer-implemented method for posting messages about future events to users of a social network, computer system and computer-readable medium thereof | |
KR101171599B1 (en) | Access to trusted user-generated content using social networks | |
TWI406137B (en) | Method and apparatus for social interaction | |
US8726169B2 (en) | Online system and method for enabling social search and structured communications among social networks | |
US9495079B2 (en) | Persistent feeder component for displaying feed items received from information feeds of online social networks | |
US20090276709A1 (en) | Method and apparatus for providing dynamic playlists and tag-tuning of multimedia objects | |
US20100146054A1 (en) | Indicating Recent Content Publication Activity by a User | |
US9117058B1 (en) | Monitoring services and platform for multiple outlets | |
AU2013262965A1 (en) | Social platform with enhanced privacy and integrated customization features | |
JP2007529822A (en) | Search system and method integrating user annotations from a trust network | |
US9342852B1 (en) | Visual indicators for account access in a social network | |
US8290964B1 (en) | Method and apparatus for obtaining recommendations from trusted sources | |
US9922379B1 (en) | Entity social network management and entity social interactive controls |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
C06 | Publication | ||
PB01 | Publication | ||
C10 | Entry into substantive examination | ||
SE01 | Entry into force of request for substantive examination | ||
CB02 | Change of applicant information |
Address after: American CaliforniaApplicant after: Google limited liability companyAddress before: American CaliforniaApplicant before: Google Inc. |
|
CB02 | Change of applicant information | ||
GR01 | Patent grant | ||
GR01 | Patent grant |