KR20140136997A - Providing information prior to downloading resources - Google Patents
Providing information prior to downloading resources Download PDFInfo
- Publication number
- KR20140136997A KR20140136997A KR1020147028954A KR20147028954A KR20140136997A KR 20140136997 A KR20140136997 A KR 20140136997A KR 1020147028954 A KR1020147028954 A KR 1020147028954A KR 20147028954 A KR20147028954 A KR 20147028954A KR 20140136997 A KR20140136997 A KR 20140136997A
- Authority
- KR
- South Korea
- Prior art keywords
- resource
- data
- price
- user
- size
- Prior art date
Links
Images
Classifications
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
- G06Q30/0207—Discounts or incentives, e.g. coupons or rebates
- G06Q30/0222—During e-commerce, i.e. online transactions
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06F—ELECTRIC DIGITAL DATA PROCESSING
- G06F16/00—Information retrieval; Database structures therefor; File system structures therefor
- G06F16/90—Details of database functions independent of the retrieved data types
- G06F16/95—Retrieval from the web
- G06F16/951—Indexing; Web crawling techniques
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/02—Marketing; Price estimation or determination; Fundraising
- G06Q30/0241—Advertisements
- G06Q30/0251—Targeted advertisements
- G06Q30/0253—During e-commerce, i.e. online transactions
-
- G—PHYSICS
- G06—COMPUTING; CALCULATING OR COUNTING
- G06Q—INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES; SYSTEMS OR METHODS SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, COMMERCIAL, FINANCIAL, MANAGERIAL OR SUPERVISORY PURPOSES, NOT OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR
- G06Q30/00—Commerce
- G06Q30/06—Buying, selling or leasing transactions
Abstract
Disclosed are methods, systems, and apparatus that include computer programs encoded on a computer readable storage medium and including a method for providing search results. The method includes receiving a query from a client device. The method further comprises, in response to the query, identifying search results using one or more processors, the search results including one or more resources. The method further includes determining, for at least one resource out of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource using one or more processors. The method further includes providing the search results to the client device, comprising providing a label associated with the resource indicating the size.
Description
[Cross reference of related application]
This application is related to U.S. Serial No. 13 / 422,164, filed March 16, 2012, U.S. Serial No. 61 / 612,901, filed March 19, 2012, U.S. Patent Application, filed July 27, No. 13 / 559,925, U.S. Serial No. 13 / 671,103, filed November 7, 2012, and U.S. Serial No. 13 / 675,103, filed November 13, 2012, The entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[TECHNICAL FIELD]
This specification relates to information presentation.
The Internet provides access to a wide variety of resources. For example, web pages for special topics or special news articles as well as video and / or audio files are accessible via the Internet.
Some users use mobile devices to access information on the Internet. In some situations, users may be sensitive to costs associated with accessing Internet resources. For example, users accessing Internet resources using a metered network (e.g., a mobile rate network with data rate charges or restrictions) may be less likely to access resources due to cost uncertainties .
In general, one innovative aspect of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include methods for providing search results. The method includes receiving a query from a client device. The method further comprises, in response to the query, identifying search results using one or more processors, the search results including one or more resources. The method further includes determining, for at least one of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource using one or more processors. The method further includes providing search results to the client device, the query including providing a label associated with the resource indicating the size.
Each of these and other implementations may include one or more of the following features, depending on the option. The label may include an estimate of size based at least in part on historical data associated with a resource. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on previous loads of a resource. The label may include an estimated size based at least in part on a search for a resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the query. The label may include a size estimate of the transfer and a descriptor of relative size. The descriptor may include a small to large range of sliders associated with the estimated size. The descriptor may reflect a particular category within a range of possible attributable attributions based on size estimation. A particular category may be of a size selected from the group comprising small, medium or large size data. The descriptor may include a description of the category of the resource. The categories of resources may be categories selected from the group consisting of videos, images, audio, flash content, applications containing embedded applications, rich content, fonts or scripts. The label may be a price related to data delivery. The price may be an amount to be charged by the carrier to convey the size of the data according to a data plan associated with the user of the client device. The price may include an indication of the current price to be imposed. The price may include an indication of the price to be charged to load the data at a future time. The label may include plan usage data. The plan usage data may indicate the amount of data loaded in a predetermined time period. The plan usage data may indicate the amount of remaining data that can be loaded in a predetermined time period after loading one resource. The method may further comprise determining, based at least in part on size, a price imposed by the delivery system associated with the client device used to present the resource. Providing search results to a client device may include providing search results and labels to the mobile device. Providing search results to a client device may include providing search results and labels to the tablet computing device. Labels may be visible when search results are provided. The label may be visible at the time of user selection of hover control for a resource. The label may be visible at the time of user selection of a link associated with a resource, and the label indicates the size of the link resource associated with the link. The query may be a voice request.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include methods for providing labels that include estimates of data transfer sizes. The method includes receiving, via a browser, a request to load a resource. The method further comprises determining the size of the data transfer for loading the resource using one or more processors before loading the resource. The method further includes presenting to the user information that includes a label related to size before loading the resource.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the historical data associated with the resource. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the prior loads of the resource. The label may include an estimated size based at least in part on the retrieval of resources by the proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the request. The label may include a size estimate of the transfer and a descriptor of relative size. The descriptor may include a range of sliders ranging from small to large, in relation to the estimated size. The descriptor may reflect a particular category within a range of possible categories that can be attributed based on size estimation. A particular category may be of a size selected from the group comprising small, medium or large size data. The descriptor may include a description of the category of the resource. The categories of resources may be categories selected from the group consisting of videos, images, audio, Flash content, applications containing embedded applications, rich content, fonts or scripts. The label may be a price associated with data transfer. The price may be the amount to be charged by the carrier to convey the size of the data according to the data plan associated with the user of the client device. The price may include an indication of the current price to be imposed. The price may include an indication of the price to be charged to load the data at a future time. The label may include plan usage data. The plan usage data may indicate the amount of data loaded in a predetermined time period. The plan usage data may indicate the amount of data loaded in a predetermined time period. The plan usage data may indicate the amount of remaining data that can be loaded in a predetermined time period after loading the resource. The method may further include determining a price imposed by the shipping system associated with the client device used to present the resource based at least in part on size. Providing search results to a client device may include providing search results and labels to the mobile device. Providing search results to a client device may include providing search results and labels to the tablet computing device. The request may be a voice request.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include methods for providing estimates of data transfer sizes. The method includes, in a proxy, receiving a request for a resource from a client device. The method further comprises determining the size of the data transfer required to complete the request using one or more processors. The method further comprises providing the client device with an estimate of the size of the data transfer required to complete the request before exposing the client device to data charges resulting from the transfer of data associated with the request.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. Providing the estimate may include determining the size based at least in part on the historical data. Providing the estimate may include determining a size based at least in part on the data received from the resource when the proxy requests loading of the resource. Providing the estimate occurs before the delivery of the data associated with the resource to the client device. The method includes the steps of passing a request from a proxy to a resource, receiving data from the resource in response to the request, determining a size associated with the one or more resources referenced in the received data, And providing size data associated with the one or more referenced resources together to the client device. The method may further include passing a request from the proxy to a resource, receiving data from the resource in response to the request, and determining the size of the data transfer from the resource based on the received data .
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include computer-implemented methods for aggregating data rates. The method further comprises identifying a plurality of mobile devices, wherein each mobile device is configured to communicate with the network to download resources from the network, the network being associated with a carrier. The method further includes generating a data bundle, wherein the data bundle represents a data download capacity to be shared among the plurality of mobile devices for data downloads from the network. The method further includes negotiating a price for the carrier and the data bundle. The method further comprises receiving, from mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices, requests for downloading data from the network. The method includes presenting data to each user of a mobile device that has provided a request in response to received requests, the data comprising rate information for initiating a respective download associated with the request, The rate information is based at least in part on the negotiated price and is independent of airtime or data charges for downloads that can generally be imposed by the carrier. The method further includes debiting the account associated with the user using the group price based on rate information after successful reception of the resource at the user's mobile device.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. The method may further include estimating capacity for a plurality of mobile devices over a time period, wherein the negotiation negotiates a price for all data downloads associated with the plurality of devices that are completed during the time period up to the capacity And < / RTI > The requests may be requests to download resources from the network. The requests may be for downloading a web page from the network. The rate information may include a price. The group price may be a fixed price for loading a unit of data. The unit of data may be selected from the group consisting of a single web page, an email message, an email header, a text message, an audio stream, a video stream, or at least a portion of the game. The fixed price may be based on one or more content types associated with a single web page selected from the group consisting of web pages, images, or videos. A fixed price may be associated with a page for a given domain associated with a single web page. The group price may be based on the amount of time required to view the requested video. The group price may be based on the number of web pages to be provided in response to the request. The group price may be based on the popularity of the content associated with the request. Group prices can be based on time of day. The mobile device may be a mobile phone, smartphone or tablet computer. The method may further comprise acknowledging rate information from each user and receiving a confirmation to initiate a download in response to the request. The method includes the steps of determining a cost for downloading data in response to a request, aggregating costs for downloads over a period of time, and determining a group price or a negotiated price for a subsequent time period based at least in part on the aggregation cost And determining a correction factor to be applied to the price. The group price may be less than the charges generated from the carrier to download the requested resource.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include computer-implemented methods for providing content. The method includes receiving a query from a client device. The method further includes, in response to the query, identifying search results using one or more processors, the search results including one or more resources. The method further includes determining, for at least one of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource using one or more processors. The method further comprises providing a label associated with a resource indicative of a rate-sensitive cost for downloading an item, wherein providing the label comprises: The price sensitivity of the user or the group of users to which the user belongs based at least in part on the evaluation of the costs incurred for each download, price sensitivity), and calculating a rate-sensitive cost based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. Providing may further include providing a rate-sensitive cost to the carrier and receiving an indication from the carrier that the rate sensitive cost is acceptable for the given transmission. Providing a rate sensitive rate to a carrier may include providing one or more rate sensitive costs and an indication of a respective cost of a liklihood for a user to load the resource at a cost sensitive to a certain rate. Receiving the indication from the carrier may comprise receiving an indication of one of the one or more rate sensitive costs acceptable to the carrier for the transmission. Providing a rate sensitive cost may further include providing a rate sensitive cost to a plurality of carriers and receiving an agreement from one or more carriers to transmit the resource at a rate sensitive cost . Providing the search results may include selecting one of the one or more carriers to transmit the resource. Choosing may include conducting an auction. Determining the actual cost may include determining an actual cost from a plurality of carriers. Determining the actual cost may include asking for a bid from the carriers to download the resource. Determining the actual price includes receiving pricing information from the carrier associated with a time period for downloading the resource, wherein the pricing information includes information that a given carrier provides to encourage more data transfers during the time period Reflect discounts. The method may further comprise determining a rate sensitivity and the step of determining the rate sensitivity may comprise determining a rate sensitivity based on at least partly the historical information, Determining a price curve for a group of users and using the price point to calculate a rate-sensitive cost. Determining the rate sensitivity can be done for the group, and the determined rate sensitivity can be applied to each member of the group. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the historical data associated with the resource. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the previous loads of the resource. The label may include an estimated size based at least in part on a search for a resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the request. The label may include a size estimate of the transfer and a descriptor of relative size. The label may be a price associated with data transfer. The price may be the amount to be charged by the carrier to convey the size of the data according to the data plan associated with the user of the client device. The price may include an indication of the current price to be imposed. The price may include an indication of the price to be charged to load the data at a future time.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include other computer-implemented methods for presenting information. The method includes receiving via a browser a request to load a resource. The method further comprises determining the size of the data transfer for loading the resource using one or more processors before loading the resource. The method further comprises presenting to the user information relating to the size, including a label, prior to loading the resource, the label comprising a rate sensitive price for loading the resource from the carrier. The presented information includes the price of groups of users or users to which the user belongs, including determining the actual cost of downloading items from the at least one carrier, historical information on downloads and estimating costs incurred for each download A determination of sensitivity, and a calculation of the rate-sensitive cost based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include other computer-implemented methods for presenting information. The method includes, in a proxy, receiving a request for a resource from a client device. The method further comprises determining the size of the data transfer required to complete the request using one or more processors. The method provides a rate sensitive cost to the client device for estimating the size of the data transfer required to complete the request and for transferring the data before exposing the client device to data charges resulting from the transfer of data associated with the request . The estimates may include a price sensitivity of the user or the groups of users to which the user belongs, including evaluating actual prices for downloading items from the at least one carrier, historical information on downloads and estimating costs incurred for each download And at least in part on the calculation of the rate-sensitive cost based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. Providing the estimate may include determining the size based at least in part on the data received from the resource when the proxy requests to load the resource. Providing the estimate may occur before the delivery of the data associated with the resource to the client device. The method includes the steps of passing a request from a proxy to a resource, receiving data from the resource in response to the request, determining a size associated with the one or more resources referenced in the received data, And providing the client device with size data associated with the referenced resources. The method may further comprise passing a request from the proxy to the resource, receiving data from the resource in response to the request, and determining the size of the data transfer from the resource based on the received data.
In general, one innovative aspect of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include computer-implemented methods for providing content. The method includes receiving by a processor a request for data from an application on a metered data network. The method further comprises determining, prior to transferring the data, the size of the associated data transfer to satisfy the request using one or more processors. The method further includes presenting to the user information relating to the size, including a label, prior to delivering the data, wherein the presented information comprises a rate sensitive cost for data delivery. The presented information includes the price of groups of users or groups of users to whom the user belongs, including evaluating actual prices for downloading items from at least one carrier, historical information about downloads, and estimating costs incurred for each download A determination of sensitivity, and a calculation of the rate-sensitive cost based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. The application may be an email application that displays the subject of the message, the data is a message, and the label includes an indication of the rate sensitive cost for downloading the corresponding overall message. An application may be associated with a desktop, and may include one or more user interface elements, and when the one or more user interface elements are selected, initiate a request. The user interface elements may be presented on the desktop of the mobile device and the user interface elements initiate a call to the data via the metered data network to the resource.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include computer-implemented methods for providing content. The method includes receiving a request to load a resource from a mobile device. The method further includes determining a transmission cost for loading the resource via the metering network. The method further includes identifying one or more sponsored content items for delivery with the resource, wherein the sponsored content items include one or more slots for presenting with third party content associated with the resource And each sponsored content item has an associated bid that indicates the amount to be paid by the sponsor for presentation of the given sponsored content item. The method further includes determining an amount of credit to be awarded for the load costs based at least in part on the bid. The method further comprising: responding to the request, indicating a reduced cost to load the resource for presentation on the mobile device when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored based at least in part on the determined amount of credit Further comprising the step of providing a label.
Each of these and other implementations may, depending on the option, include one or more of the following features. The method may further comprise determining a minimum threshold revenue required by the sponsor to be provided to the publisher by the sponsor in connection with presentation of the predetermined sponsored content item with the resource, Determining the amount may be further based on the minimum-threshold revenue, including determining when the bid exceeds the minimum-threshold revenue. The amount of credit may be used to reduce the transmission cost, and at least a portion of the revenue that may be attributable to the bidding for the sponsored content item may be provided to offset the transmission cost. The transmission cost may be offset by credits associated with a plurality of different sponsored content items that are to be viewed in relation to the loaded resource. The method may further include presenting the attribute in relation to the label when the credit reduces transmission costs for the resource. Determining the actual cost may include determining an actual cost from a plurality of carriers. The label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the historical data associated with the resource. The label may include an estimated size based at least in part on a search for a resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the request. The label may include a size estimate of the transfer and a descriptor of relative size. The label may include a price associated with data transfer.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in ways that include other computer-implemented methods for providing content. The method includes receiving a request for a resource from a mobile device. The method further includes determining a transmission cost for loading the resource via the metering network. The method further includes determining potential sponsors to reduce the cost of loading resources for an end user, wherein the sponsor is associated with a third party content associated with the publisher or resource associated with the resource The content is selected from an advertiser associated with one or more slots to be presented. The method further includes determining a time factor for use in adjusting the transfer price based on demand during a time period to load the resource and a period associated with the time. The method further includes determining an adjusted transmission price based at least in part on a time factor, some potential sponsors, and a transmission cost. The method further includes providing a label in response to the request, the reduced cost for loading the resource to present on the mobile device when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented as computer programs, which include computer programs stored in a computer-readable storage device and containing instructions . The instructions, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to receive a request from a mobile device to load a resource, determine a transfer cost to load the resource via the metering network, The sponsored content items are included in one or more slots for display with third party content associated with the resource and each sponsored content item is presented by a sponsor for presentation of a sponsored content item Determining an amount of credit to be awarded for the load costs based at least in part on the bid, and determining the amount of credit to be awarded, based at least in part on the amount of credit determined, Is partially or wholly sponsored, To present on the mobile device group, and to provide a label that represents a reduced cost, in response to said request to load a resource.
In general, other innovative aspects of the invention described herein may be implemented in systems that include a system for providing content. The system includes a processor and a memory. The memory includes instructions that when executed cause the processor to receive a request from a mobile device to load a resource, determine a transfer cost to load the resource via the metering network, Wherein the sponsored content items are included in one or more slots for presentation with third party content associated with a resource and each sponsored content item includes a presentation of a sponsored content item Having an associated bid representing an amount to be paid by the sponsor, - determining the amount of credit awarded to the load costs based at least in part on the bid, and determining, based at least in part on the amount of credit determined, The load of the resource may be partially or totally When sponsored, it provides a label that responds to the request, indicating a reduced cost to load the resource, for presentation on the mobile device.
Special implementations may not realize any of the following advantages or may realize more than one. Fixed pricing of aggregation systems can be very straightforward to communicate to users and can facilitate adjustments over time as the market or user pool changes. History information related to the size of downloads, its timing or the like can be analyzed to determine trends that can be used to predict oncoming needs / capacities, and information can be preemptively ). ≪ / RTI > Providing the download costs to the user in light of the user's sensitivity to the price makes it possible for the carriers to better use their excess capacity and to allow users to download the Internet and / or other resources on the mobile devices, Allows the price to experience a price-transparent. Sponsoring loads (e.g., downloads), including providing a reduced price for users to load resources, includes sponsors who are sensitive to prices imposed by carriers to download data To reach even more users of the Internet. Providing labels that identify future times of sponsored loads allows price sensitive users to manage transmission costs. By subsidizing resources, for example by subsidizing the transmission costs of loading web pages, publishers can receive more user traffic on their web pages, and advertisers can receive more user traffic on their web pages, To serve more imprints of their ads.
The details of one or more implementations of the invention described herein are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description. Other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description, drawings, and claims.
Figure 1 is a block diagram of an exemplary environment for delivering content.
2A is a block diagram of an exemplary system for providing a label indicating the estimated size of a data transfer of a corresponding resource along with a search result.
FIG. 2B shows an exemplary representation of the presented label after the resource is selected but before the resource is loaded, depending on the option.
Figures 3A-3E illustrate exemplary devices for displaying search results that include various types of transfer size labels.
3f illustrate an exemplary user setup screen for specifying how transmission size labels are used.
Figure 3g shows an exemplary alert setup screen for setting alerts corresponding to the page-load cost amount.
4A is a flowchart of an exemplary process for providing a label with a search result indicating an estimated size of data delivery of a corresponding resource.
4B is a flowchart of an exemplary process for providing a label indicating the estimated transfer size of a resource after the resource is selected but before the resource is loaded.
4C is a flowchart of an exemplary process in which the proxy provides an estimated size for data transfer of resources.
4D is a flowchart of an exemplary process for providing content to a user and withdrawing from a user's account using bundled rates in an aggregation system.
Figure 4E is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting rate sensitive cost information associated with downloading resources included in search results.
4F is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting rate sensitive cost information associated with downloading resources from a browser.
4G is a flowchart of an exemplary process for providing rate sensitive cost information associated with a proxy downloading resources.
4H is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting rate-sensitive cost information associated with delivering data in an application.
Figure 4i is a flowchart of an exemplary process for presenting sponsorship information associated with loading resources.
4J illustrates an exemplary resource including content item slots.
4k is a flowchart of an exemplary process for providing reduced transfer pricing information for a resource to be loaded at a later time.
Figure 5A shows an exemplary persistent balance bar included on a web page showing the user's current balance.
Figure 5B illustrates an exemplary validation dialog that appears when a user selects a link to a web page.
Figure 5C illustrates an exemplary insufficient balance dialog.
Figures 5d-5e illustrate an exemplary top-up interface that may be viewed on a destination.
5F shows an exemplary balance bar on the search result page.
Figure 5G illustrates an exemplary email application for displaying email message inputs.
Figure 5h shows an exemplary label presented on the mobile device that identifies the transmission cost for loading the resource at a later time.
Figure 5i illustrates exemplary displays that include the user ' s last activity.
Figure 5J shows a table of exemplary guaranteed rates.
5K illustrates an exemplary environment for compressing information before information is provided to the user device.
6 is a block diagram of an exemplary computer system that may be used to implement the methods, systems, and processes described herein.
Like reference numbers and designations in the various figures indicate like elements.
The present specification describes methods, processes and systems for providing information including a label identifying an estimated size and / or price associated with data delivery of a resource. For example, if a user enters a search query on a mobile device (e.g., a cell phone, tablet computing device, or some other device), the answer search results may include size estimation labels. For example, the labels may provide size estimates and / or price estimates to the user. The estimates may indicate to the user the relative size or cost associated with the delivery of the data when the user selects the search results and thus causes the corresponding resource to be downloaded to the user's phone. For example, the size estimates may be absolute (e.g., the actual number of bytes or bits), relative (e.g., "small", "medium" or "large"), or otherwise presented. The price estimates may be based on size estimates and may vary depending on the user's phone and / or data plan, time of day, location of the user, and other factors. Based on the information presented, the user can determine whether or not to select a particular search result (e.g., whether downloading the corresponding resource is worth the estimated price (or affordable to the user) have. Users may use size estimation labels to control costs, for example, in a penny (or in a user's local currency).
In some implementations, size estimation labels may not be presented with search results, but information may be available to the user automatically or at user initiation. In some implementations, the user may use control on the user device to prompt the display of label information (e.g., the user may hover over the search result, Can be displayed). In some implementations, the user may select a particular search result, and instead of automatically downloading the resource, a size estimation label may be presented to the user. In this example, the user can make a choice of whether to proceed with the download or not, based on the information displayed.
Although references are made to search results, information labels may be provided in other situations where data is attempted to be loaded, for example, in a metered data network. For example, an information label may be presented in conjunction with a selection of resources on a page, or may be presented in connection with any request for data over a metric data network. Additionally, an information label may be provided as part of the content displayed to the user, wherein the labels may be provided for each reference to the resource (e.g., a link on the page).
In some implementations, a sacheting system may be used, for example, to eliminate financial uncertainty for the user. For example, a third party (e.g., a content provider) may ensure that the estimated rates displayed to the user are honored. Guaranteed rates may be realized by arranging with the carriers to establish set-up prices for transmissions to users associated with the carrier (e.g., to effectively bundle rates for large groups of users) .
The present disclosure also describes methods, processes, and systems for providing content to a user and withdrawing from a user's account using bundled rates within an aggregation system. Prior to providing the content, information may be provided including, for example, a label identifying the estimated size and / or price associated with the data delivery of the resource.
In some implementations, the aggregation system may be used, for example, to eliminate financial uncertainty for the user. For example, a third party (e.g., a content provider) may ensure that the estimated rates displayed to the user are honored. The guaranteed rates are realized by arranging with the carriers to establish set rates for transmission to users associated with the carrier (e.g., to efficiently bundle rates for large groups of users) .
Within the aggregation system, a number of different approaches may be used to price the page or other item of downloadable or accessible content. In some implementations, users can be divided into two or more groups, and experiments can be performed to determine effects of pricing among users of groups. For example, a user's control group may not see any of the user interfaces associated with the particular data rate described herein, and thus will pay the carrier's normal data rates. However, users in the experimental group may be presented with experimental bundle prices and may be presented with user interfaces related to the particular data rate described herein. In some implementations, for example, when a user clicks on a web link and / or loads data (or performs some other data transfer) in an app, It may not always be possible to have information. This may occur because the pages can change continuously and some data on the web page may contain data that is loaded asynchronously after the page appears (e.g., using AJAX or other dynamic invocation).
In some implementations, one or more mechanisms and / or techniques may be used, individually or in combination, to help determine, for example, the cost of the download. In some implementations, a pre-fetch scheme may be used. For example, when a user requests a web page, the back-end process can immediately begin requesting and rendering the web page in the background. Size information associated with the rendered page may then be used to present size and cost information to an interstitial dialog (e.g.,
In some implementations, for example, downloadable / accessible content can be priced by content type using a fixed cost menu technique. In an exemplary price structure using fixed cost menu techniques, web pages can cost $ .05 each, images cost $ .10 each, and video costs $ .10 per minute . In some implementations, additional pricing structures may consider loading mixes of different content types. In some implementations, variations in over-pricing and under-pricing that may result from using a fixed cost menu (e. G., Metric < / RTI > ), For example, by adjusting prices over time. For example, if an aggregate counts web pages costing $ .15 for download at $ .12, then under-charging will issue a price change. lt; RTI ID = 0.0 > instituting < / RTI >
In some implementations, domain pricing may be used, e.g., in this domain pricing, a flat rate is imposed on any page associated with a particular domain. For example, social network pages may include individual pages that are not known in advance for the exact page size that is dynamically built during the user's session (e.g., using AJAX). In this case, for example, a base rate per page that is dependent on a specific domain may be imposed. Over time, the base rates may be adjusted high or low based, for example, on the actual cost of providing the user with an average page in the domain.
In some implementations, web crawlers can be used to walk web sites and pre-render them, e.g., to obtain size estimates. The pages may be re-crawled as needed to obtain new size estimates for pages that may have changed.
In some implementations, feedback loops may be used for one or more of the techniques described above. For example, since a large amount of data related to the actual costs of providing the content is received, the costs may be modified on-the-fly as needed to reflect more accurate pricing. In some implementations, to provide price transparency, for example, pricing changes may be generated at fixed times and / or after pre-publication so that the user always knows the current price and the upcoming price.
In some implementations, fixed rates per page load may be used. For example, the actual size of the content may be ignored, and the price may be determined based on the number of pages loaded. In some implementations, the imposed prices may be reduced according to certain criteria, for example, based at least in part on the access time (e.g., the number of seconds the user is on the web page or the number of seconds viewing the video).
In some implementations, per byte pricing may be used. For example, examples can be provided to teach a user how much is a byte and how much it costs (e.g., "Most web pages are 1000 to 2000 bytes, so $ .15 to $. It costs 30 "). In some implementations, the user's online access history can be used to provide estimates to the user (e.g., "historically your text messages are each 100 bytes on average, costing $. 02 each").
Bundling users into groups can occur in a number of different ways. In some implementations, all users may be bundled into a single group, which results in some users paying a little less than the actual cost for certain data delivery and some users paying a little more. In some implementations, the grouping may include user price groups organized by region, demographics, or other characteristics to correlate groups of users based on, for example, the type of content the users view or other reasons . In some implementations, information about users in the same price group that can load the same pages can be used to more accurately predict costs and to provide server-side caching and pre-rendering to increase speed and lower costs Can be used.
In some implementations, the price bundles may be based on the content type. For example, web pages resulting in network traffic with high bandwidth content (e. G., Streaming videos) as a result may have a high price to account for the associated operating network overhead. As a result, users who see a lot of content can see their costs increase.
In some implementations, pricing may vary dynamically based on real-time combinations of various factors. For example, the day factor may be the popularity of the content. In the case of frequently loaded static content, for example, the actual size of the content of a very good idea can be known, so that the content can be priced accurately. In some implementations, popular content may be pre-cached, for example, to lower latency and avoid network traffic. The knowledge of popular content may be used, for example, to lower the price of cached content (e.g., to allow users to save) or to increase prices (e.g., to increase profits and profits) .
Other factors used in pricing bundles may be the time of day. For example, prices may be raised during periods of high demand and may be lowered during off-peak usage.
The present disclosure includes methods, processes, and systems for handling a user's price sensitivity with respect to phone costs and Internet access time, including, for example, generating a label associated with a resource representing a rate- Lt; / RTI > The rate sensitive cost includes first determining an actual cost for downloading an item from at least one carrier and then evaluating historical information for downloads and costs incurred for each download to determine a user's price sensitivity It can be judged when judging. Calculating the rate-sensitive cost may be based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity. The cost may then be displayed to the user who can decide whether to proceed with downloading the resource or not.
The present disclosure describes methods, processes and systems for pricing downloads, including, for example, providing a user with labels indicative of reduced transmission costs for loading resources. For example, labels may be presented consistent with the display of search results in response to a search query. Each label may include, for example, a reduced cost to transmit (e.g., download) the resource associated with the search result. For example, the reduced cost presented to the user may be present before the user initiates the load or may be presented after the load has begun, for example, if the user continues the operation (if the price is acceptable) If the price is too high). The reduced cost may be based on, for example, sponsorship by a publisher of a resource (e.g., a web page) and / or a content sponsor (e.g., an advertiser associated with advertising on a web page). In some implementations, a plurality of sponsors may affect the price charged to the user for transmitting the resource. In some implementations, reduced transmission costs may be computed for future time periods, for example, when sponsors have decided to sponsor loads for activity times that are not peaks, for example. Some implementations may include providing the user with information about the amount of sponsorship and / or the sponsor (s) and thus, for example, the users know the sponsor's source (s).
While many of the examples presented herein focus on transmission costs associated with loading / downloading resources, methods, processes, and systems can also be applied to other types of transmissions. For example, users may be presented with labels that identify the cost of forwarding information (e.g., forwarding email or other information to another user) and / or sending information (e.g., to an address associated with an online entity) have. In these and other implementations, sponsors, such as publishers and content sponsors (e.g., advertisers), may agree to pick up some or all of the costs for these transmissions.
In some implementations, spot market opportunities may be supported. For example, if traffic of a carrier is not utilized, estimates of traffic to be transmitted over the network associated with the carrier may be automatically lowered, for example, to encourage data transmissions within the network.
Although the estimated sizes and prices mentioned herein are described using examples of data transfers in the form of downloads of resources, other data transfers are also within the scope of the present invention. For example, the same or different sizes and prices may relate to reissuing content, for example, if the user decides to share content with other users. In this example, the user may be presented with a label associated with reissuing the content, making a decision to reissue, or making a decision based on an estimated price.
In some implementations, the third party sponsors may provide the user with a free (e.g., free) service that eliminates the financial worries the user may have about whether they can afford airtime or bandwidth costs of accessing the content, free organic content page downloads. For example, these organic content pages that are free for users to download may be marked with a zero-cost label and / or highlighted in some other way. In some implementations, third party sponsors may target specific countries, user groups, and / or content types. For example, private foundations may be interested in sponsoring public health content for specific groups of people in Africa or elsewhere.
1 is a block diagram of an
The
The
To facilitate searching for these resources, the
In some implementations, the
In some implementations, the data store of data plans 121 may include information about the rate information of each user, and the information may include, for example, the price per N bytes of downloaded resources and / . In some implementations, the data plans 121 may be generated from information provided through partnerships or agreements with various carriers or other service providers that provide access to
In some implementations, the
In some implementations, the price engine 124 may determine actual costs that a user's carrier may generate to download certain resources. The costs may depend on a number of factors including, for example, the size of the resource, the data transfer rate associated with the user downloading the resource, the time of day (e.g., peak to non-peak rates), and / .
In some implementations, the price engine 124 may also determine reduced costs for transmitting specific resources. Reduced costs may be based, for example, on sponsors who have agreed to sponsor some or all of the cost of the user to load the resource. Exemplary sponsors include publishers and content sponsors (e.g., advertisers).
In some implementations, the proxy system 130, which includes a plurality of engines, may use the information from the
In situations where the systems discussed herein collect or use personal information about users, users may select programs / features that can collect or use personal information (e.g., information about the user's account) You may be given the opportunity to opt in / out. Additionally, certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before the data is stored or used, so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example, the identity of the user may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information about the user can be determined, or the geographic location of the user from which location information (such as city, zip code, main level) is obtained is generalized The special position of the user can not be determined.
FIG. 2A is a block diagram of an
In some implementations, estimating the size and / or price may include determining the size based at least in part on the
In some implementations, the proxy system 130, including the components, may use the information from the
For example, labels 204a and 204b may provide
In some implementations, the
Figure 2B illustrates an exemplary presentation of a
3A-3E illustrate
In some implementations, the prices associated with downloading data may be displayed in local currency. For example, if the user is currently located in Ghana (as determined, for example, from the global positioning system (GPS) capabilities of the user device), the
Referring to FIG. 3B, the information provided in the
In some implementations, the manner in which the
Referring to FIG. 3C, the information provided in the
Referring to FIG. 3D,
3E,
The examples in FIGS. 3A through 3E illustrate exemplary labels displayed in search results, and the same labels or different labels may be provided when a resource is selected or otherwise presented. For example, any of the labels or different labels may be presented when the user selects a search result or any presented resource, which provides the user with an option to complete the data transfer after the associated size / price information is presented .
Figure 3F illustrates an exemplary
In some implementations, the
In some implementations, the user-configured
In some implementations, the
FIG. 3G shows an exemplary alert setting screen 350 for setting alerts corresponding to the page-load cost amount. For example, the user can use the alert setting screen 350 to identify the threshold cost, and the system will notify the user that the threshold cost is higher than the threshold cost before loading the page. In this manner, the user can control and track the costs of loading more expensive pages.
The alert settings screen 350 may include an
4A is a flow diagram of an
A query is received 402 from the client device. For example, the
In some implementations, the query may be initiated by the user as a voice request. Other prompts for information can be activated manually or automatically. For example, the feature phone may include a rudimentary menu with predefined search categories (e.g., weather, score, price, etc.). When the user activates one of these menus, the application can use the predefined information to enforce the request. The entire sequence of user selections and intermediate results can likewise be labeled with a price. For example, if the user's choice is a weather category, options associated with each weather presented to the user, such as an option to display today's weather forecast, can have an estimated size and price. Once a selection is made by the user, additional price-labeled options may be presented along with display of current weather information, for example, on any other referenced resource on the page containing the weather information requested.
In some implementations, the query may be initiated as a result of a user using an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system. For example, a user in Africa can call the IVR system and navigate to pre-recorded information (e.g., weather, sports scores, etc.), voice a question or perform a search A driven system can be used. The use of an IVR system may also have associated prices, e.g., prompting the user at a price before presenting the information.
In response to the query, search results containing one or more resources are identified (step 404). In one example, the
For at least one of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource is determined (step 406). For example, the size engine 122 may determine an estimated size for the resource. The price engine 124 may also determine a corresponding estimated price and the
The search results are provided to the client device, including providing a label associated with the job resource indicating the size / price (step 408). In one example,
In some implementations, the descriptors may identify categories of resources associated with the search results, e.g., in a manner that allows the user to obtain knowledge of the types of resources that can contribute to the corresponding size of resources. For example, the descriptor may identify a resource as comprising one or more of: video, images, audio, flash content, applications including embedded applications, rich content, fonts and / or categories of scripts .
In some implementations, the label includes an estimate of the size based at least in part on the historical data associated with the resource. For example, the size engine 122 may report or record the last time (or previous times) the resource was downloaded, to determine the size of the resource. In some implementations, the size may include (or be an average of) a plurality of sizes corresponding to a plurality of downloads of the same resource. As a result, the label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the prior loads of one resource.
In some implementations, the label includes an estimated size based at least in part upon retrieval of a resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the request. For example, instead of accessing information about previous loads of resources, the proxy system 130 may determine the size of the resource (e.g., before the user chooses to download the resource) .
In some implementations, the label may include a price associated with data delivery. For example, the price may be a price that a user in Africa can charge by a user's phone carrier to deliver the size or amount of data to the phone carrier in accordance with the user's data plan. In some implementations, the price identified in the label may be, for example, the current price for an immediate download of the resource. In some implementations, the price may include an indication of the price to be imposed to load the data at a future time. For example, a label that a user sees may identify a price for later downloading of resources for, for example, off-peak times or some other identified time. In some implementations, the label presented to the user may include, for example, plan usage data indicating the amount of data loaded in a predetermined time period (e.g.,
In some implementations, the price associated with data transfer may be a price charged by the shipping system 150 (e.g., a user's phone carrier) associated with a client device used to present a resource at least partially based on size. Lt; / RTI > For example, the price a user sees may be the price to be charged under a user's data usage plan.
In some implementations, when a user selects search results and a corresponding resource is downloaded, the resource may include a plurality of embedded links. In some implementations, each of the embedded links may be augmented to include, for example, a label that may be visible upon user selection of a link associated with the resource. For example, after the user selects a link, the displayed label may indicate the size of the link resource associated with the link (e.g., including the cost of the user downloading the resource).
4B is a flowchart of an
A request to load the resource is received via the browser (step 422). For example, referring to FIG. 2B, a request may be generated when a user selects a search result 118c. In some implementations, the request may be a voice request. For example, the request may be initiated as a result of the user using an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system. For example, a user in Africa can call the IVR system and navigate pre-recorded information (e.g., weather, sports scores, etc.) or choose an option.
In some implementations, if the user uses a feature phone, the request may be a selection from a basic menu with predetermined search categories (e.g., weather, scores, prices, etc.). If the user activates one of the menu options, the application can initiate the request using predefined information.
Before loading the resource, the size of the data transfer to load the resource is determined (step 424). In one example, the size engine 122 may determine an estimated size for the resource. The price engine 124 may also determine a corresponding estimated price and the
Information relating to the size, including the label, is presented to the user before loading the resource (step 426). For example, referring to FIG. 2B, size information may be presented in pop-
In some implementations, the label may include, for example, an estimate of size based at least in part on historical data associated with a resource as determined by size engine 122 using
In some implementations, the label may include a price associated with data delivery, such as a price that a user may be charged by the user's phone carrier for data delivery based on, for example, rates associated with the user's data plan. In some implementations, the price identified in the label may be the current price for immediate download, or a price that can be imposed to load the data at a future time. In some implementations, the label presented to the user includes plan usage data indicating, for example, the amount of data loaded in a predetermined time period and / or the amount of remaining data that can be loaded in a predetermined time period after loading one resource can do.
In some implementations, the price associated with data transfer may be the price imposed by the shipping system 150 (e.g., the user's phone carrier). For example, the price the user sees may be the price to be charged under the user's data usage plan if the user downloads the resource.
In some implementations, when search results containing one or more embedded links are downloaded, each embedded link may include or be associated with a label that may be visible, for example, upon user selection of the link. For example, after the user selects a link, the displayed label may indicate the size of the link resource associated with the link (e.g., including the cost of the user downloading the corresponding resource).
4C is a flowchart of an
In the proxy, a request for a resource is received from the client device (step 442). For example, referring to FIG. 2B, the proxy system 130 (e.g., in combination with the content management system 110) may receive a request for a resource associated with the search result 118c.
The size of the data transfer required to complete the request is determined (step 444). For example, the size engine 122 may determine the estimated size of the resource based at least in part on the
Estimation, which is an estimate of the size of the data transfer required to complete the request, is provided 444 before exposing the client device to data charges resulting from the transfer of data associated with the request. For example, the proxy system 130 may provide the
In some implementations, providing an estimate may include determining a size based, at least in part, on data received from the resource when the proxy requests loading of the resource. For example, the proxy system 130 may use the information in the resource to determine the estimated size, for example, by checking the size of the resource using file size utilities, or by determining the size by loading or preloading the resource . For example, providing size estimates may occur prior to delivery of data associated with a resource to a client device.
In some implementations,
In some implementations, the
As described above, data rate labels based on the size of the data transfer may be provided to the client device prior to the commencement of downloading of data. The price estimates provided in connection with the data rate labels may be assured by a service such as a service that provides price information. For example, a service may make a purchase purchase with a carrier for an advance purchase of data bandwidth or a bulk volume of data bandwidth. The purchased data bandwidth may be resold, for example, by marking up individual users on an A-Carte basis, or without increasing the price. Thus, while the service is able to pass bulk pricing to the user, the carriers can also reduce the uncertainty and risk associated with the volume of consumption, which may be due to their ability to predict and plan capacity increases and other capital expenditures Ability to improve. The service may provide a solution (e.g., software) to enable such arbitration, including allowing users to maintain individual voice and data balances rather than using their own voice balance. Expected consumption estimates can be made on a per-user basis through user-specific models based on past individual consumption patterns and community consumption patterns.
One example of a method for providing a guaranteed cost shipping service includes receiving, by a processor, a request for data from an application on a metered data network. The request for data may be a request from the mobile handset to the data from the resource being delivered to the mobile device by the carrier. The user may contract with the carrier for voice or data services. In some implementations, the transactions considered herein include individual consent with the delivery service to engage in bulk pricing. In some implementations, users can sign up separately for the shipping service. The transfer of some or all of the data to / from the user device may be governed by an individual agreement.
Before delivering the data, the delivery service can determine the size of the associated data transfer to satisfy the request. The delivery system may do so, for example, by loading data into the proxy, or by evaluating historical information associated with previous loads of data, as described above. The delivery system may present information including price information to be imposed by the carrier for transmission of data based on size. The price information may reflect the estimated cost to the user.
Upon receipt of an acknowledgment to deliver the data, the price estimate may be paid by the delivery system. To facilitate this, the delivery system can estimate the aggregate amount of data that subscribers will spend in the time period, and establish a carrier and bulk price for the total amount. Paying the estimate may include withdrawing an amount equal to or less than the estimated price from the access plan of the user associated with the carrier.
The application request may originate from an application running on the mobile device. The metering data network may be a wireless network. The request for data may be a request for a resource from the browser. Price information may include estimated costs in local currencies.
The access plan may be a voice plan and withdrawing the estimated price may include withdrawing the amount to the local currency for the balance maintained in the local currency for voice communications in the metered data network. Alternatively, the access plan may be in the form of a data plan or a combined voice and data plan.
Estimating the total amount may include determining a first time period, determining the number of subscribers who have chosen to use bulk pricing, and estimating the use of data by the number of subscribers in the first time period have.
As described above, data rate labels may be provided, for example, in connection with data requests received at or at the mobile device. In some implementations, the spot market may be created by a delivery system (typically only a fixed market exists) for delivery of data to consumers in a metered network. In some implementations, a capacity auction platform may be created to allow carriers to sell excess capacity at floating prices. The delivery system can use historical information on data consumption at price points to discern individual price sensitivity curves of a single or group of users. Using the price sensitivity curve information, the delivery system can, for example, determine price sensitive users and determine how a particular change in price at a particular time will drive changes in usage. The mechanism for surfacing these carrier offers may use data rate labels. Users will no longer need to submit bids and instead rate labels for price sensitive users will be automatically changed (down or up), thereby realizing an offer from the carrier and simulating consumption or effectively pricing .
In some implementations, the delivery system may provide tools for carriers, such as the ability to set a target utility rate, or specific price bands during certain times of the day, to determine offers of carriers. Based on these targets, the delivery system may adjust the data rate label price estimates to drive towards the targeted consumption target for a predetermined time period.
4D is a flowchart of an
A plurality of mobile devices are identified, and each mobile device is configured to communicate with the network to download resources from the network, wherein the network is associated with a carrier (step 552). For example, the proxy system 130 may identify a group of
A data bundle is created (step 554) indicating data download capacity to be shared among the plurality of mobile devices for data downloads from the network. In one example, the proxy system 130 may identify a group of accounts associated with
The price for the data bundle is negotiated with the carrier (step 556). For example, the service provider may negotiate with the phone carrier a pricing structure that includes prices for X bytes of information and M minutes of access time (e.g., viewing video). The information about the price structure can be issued in some way, for example, to users of records in a group with an account with a phone carrier.
Requests for downloading data from the network are received from the mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices (step 558). For example, each of the requests may be requests for downloading resources from the network, downloading web pages from the network, or any other request involving transferring data to or from the
Wherein data responsive to received requests is presented to each user of a mobile device that has provided the request, the data comprising rate information for initiating a respective download associated with the request, Is at least partially based and is not related to data charges for downloads that may generally be charged by airtime or carrier (step 560). For example, the rate information may include a price such as
In some implementations, an acknowledgment is received from each user to acknowledge the rate information and initiate a download in response to the request, before the data in response to the received request is presented to each user of the mobile device. 5A-5B, a user may be presented with a
In some implementations, the cost for the data presented or downloaded in response to the request is determined. The costs for downloads can be aggregated over a particular time period and a correction factor to be applied to the group price or negotiated price can be determined for a subsequent time period based at least in part on the aggregation cost. In some implementations, the content may be downloaded and pre-cached in parallel with presenting the confirmation to the user. The cache may be used to provide a quick response to the user. For example, the background process can download and
After successful receipt of the resource at the user's mobile device, the account associated with the user is withdrawn using the group price based on rate information (step 562). For example, the group price may be a fixed price for loading at least a portion of a unit of data, e.g., a single web page, an email message, an email header, a text message, an audio stream, a video stream or a game. The group prices may include the amount of time required to view / present the requested content item (e.g., video), the number of web pages to be provided in response to the request, the popularity of the content associated with the request, the time of day and / Lt; RTI ID = 0.0 > and / or < / RTI > For example, the fixed price may be based on one or more content types (e.g., web pages, images, or video) associated with the request. In some implementations, the amount withdrawn may be a rate provided to the user regardless of the actual size of the content. In some implementations, the amount withdrawn may be an amount based on the content size using the initial presentation as an estimate.
In some implementations, the group price may be less than the charges generated from the carrier to download the requested resource. Group prices are set to provide not-for-profit or break-even rates for users, such as users in certain countries or regions, for example, where the service is underserved . In some implementations, the group prices may be equal to or higher than the charges incurred from the carrier to download the requested resource. For example, group prices may also be established to gain a modest level or a high level of benefit from user activities.
In some implementations,
4E is a flowchart of an exemplary process 750 for presenting rate sensitive cost information associated with downloading resources included in search results. The process 750 may be performed by the
A query is received from the client device (step 752). For example, referring to FIG. 3A, a user may enter a query 306 (e.g., "exp") on a
In response to the query, search results including one or more resources are identified (step 754). For example, the
For at least one of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource is determined (step 755). For example, the size engine 122 may determine the size of each of the resources associated with the
Search results are provided (step 756) to the client device, including providing a label associated with a resource, indicative of rate-sensitive costs for downloading the item. In one example,
In some implementations, the label may include an estimate of the size based at least in part on the
In some implementations, the label may include a price associated with data transfer (e.g.,
In some implementations, the estimated sizes may be presented differently from known sizes, for example, by displaying "est." Next to the transfer size. In some implementations, the label may include an estimated size based at least in part upon retrieval of a resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the resource in response to the request. For example, the proxy system 130 may pre-process and / or inspect the resource in any suitable manner for obtaining the size of the indication or resource before the resource is presented to the user for potential download.
The actual price for downloading the item from at least one carrier is determined (step 757). In one example, the price engine 124 may determine the actual cost that the user's carrier may generate to download the resource.
In some implementations, the actual cost to be determined may include determining an actual cost from a plurality of carriers. For example, the actual cost may be calculated with respect to the primary carrier of the user and / or the actual cost may be calculated based on, for example, the user's location, the type of equipment and / Carrier < / RTI > Some of the actual costs of other carriers may be lower than, for example, the cost of the user's primary carrier. For example, some or all of the actual costs can be determined at the auction, for example, by asking for bids from the carriers to download the resources.
In some implementations, determining the actual cost may include receiving pricing information from a carrier associated with a time period for downloading the resource, wherein the pricing information indicates that the given carrier is transmitting more data during the time period And may reflect any discounts they provide to encourage them. For example, one or more of the actual costs displayed to the user may be provided for reasons of non-peak time periods and / or other (e.g., low) rates provided when carriers have excess capacity that they can utilize Costs.
The price sensitivity of the user is determined (step 758) including evaluating historical information on downloads and costs incurred for each of the downloads. For example, the price engine 124 may use the user information to access the price sensitivity information in the
The rate sensitive cost is calculated based at least in part on the actual cost and the determined price sensitivity (step 759). In one example, the price engine 124 may calculate a different (e.g., low) cost for downloading the resource based at least in part on the price sensitivity of the user.
In some implementations, the rate sensitive cost may be determined for the group, and the determined rate sensitivity may be applied to each member of the group. For example, there may be a group of users with similar sensitivities to download prices, and carriers may wish to bundle discounts with these users. Thus, the reduced cost that users see to download a particular resource can be the result of that user and / or other users accessing the same or different resources, and the user and / It can be the result of having.
In some implementations, the process 750 may further comprise determining rate sensitivity, which is based on, at least in part, historical information including a price point information that reflects when the user consents to download, And determining a price curve for the user. Then, the price point is used to calculate the rate-sensitive cost. For example, the
4F is a flowchart of an
A request to load the resource is received via the browser (step 762). For example, a user may enter the URL of a web page, or in some other way select a resource to be downloaded from the browser.
Before loading the resource, the size of the data transfer to load the resource is determined (step 764). For example, the size engine 122 may determine the size of the resource to be loaded.
Information relating to the size, including the label, is presented to the user prior to loading the resource (step 766). The label includes a rate sensitive price for loading resources from the carrier. The presented information includes a determination of the actual cost of downloading the item from the at least one carrier, a determination of the price sensitivity of the user including evaluating the costs incurred for each of the download and history information for the downloads, Sensitive cost based at least in part on the price sensitivity that has been achieved. In one example,
4G is a flowchart of an
In the proxy, a request for a resource is received from the client device (step 772). For example, the proxy system 130 may receive a request corresponding to one or more of the
The size of the data transfer required to complete the request is determined. For example, the size engine 122 may determine the size of the resource using, for example, the techniques described above.
An estimate is provided to the client device (step 774). The estimate is for the size of the data transfer required to complete the request and the rate sensitive cost to transfer the data prior to exposing the client device to the data charges resulting from the transfer of the data associated with the request. The estimation includes a determination of the actual cost for downloading the item from the at least one carrier, a determination of the price sensitivity of the user including evaluating the costs generated for each of the downloads and the history information for the downloads, At least in part, on the calculation of rate-sensitive costs based at least in part on price sensitivity. Estimation may be determined by size engine 122, as described above.
In some implementations, providing an estimate may include determining a size based at least in part on data received from the resource when the proxy requests a load of the resource. For example, the size engine 122 may determine the size of a resource from a resource at a time the resource is retrieved (e.g., following a user selecting or otherwise identifying a resource to be loaded).
In some implementations, providing an estimate may occur prior to delivery of data associated with the resource to the client device. For example, the proxy server 130 may provide the user's
In some implementations,
In some implementations, the
4H is a flowchart of an
The request for data is received from the application on the metering data network (step 782). For example, an application may be an email application that displays a subject of a message, the requested data may be a message, and the label may include an indication of a rate sensitive cost for downloading the corresponding overall message. As shown in FIG. 5G, an exemplary email application displays
Prior to transferring the data, the size of the associated data transfer to satisfy the request is determined (step 784). For example, the size engine 122 may determine the sizes included in the displayed
Information relating to the size, including the label, is presented to the user before delivering the data (step 786). The presented information includes rate-sensitive costs for data transfer. The presented information includes a determination of the actual cost of downloading the item from the at least one carrier, a determination of the price sensitivity of the user including evaluating the costs incurred for each of the download and history information for the downloads, Sensitive cost based at least in part on the price sensitivity that has been achieved. For example, rate-sensitive costs for downloading messages associated with
In some implementations, an application may be associated with a desktop, and may include one or more user interface elements, which initiate a request when selected. For example, the desktop displayed on the user's device may include selectable icons, which when selected will launch each application (e.g., a map application, a financial application, etc.). If the application and the resources (e.g., data) needed by the application are not local to the user's computer device, but are accessed through the user's data plan, the carrier rates are the data corresponding to the start of the requested application Lt; / RTI > In some implementations, the interface elements associated with the application (s) may be presented on the desktop of the mobile device (e.g., the user's mobile phone), and the user interface elements may be invoked on the meta data network Lt; / RTI > Thus, rate-sensitive costs can be determined and provided to the user. The user can then decide whether to start or not to start the application and proceeding to start the application can be done, for example, by downloading the user's current balance with the carrier, e.g., downloading and / And may affect the amount of pre-paid user purchases.
4I is a flowchart of an
A request to load the resource is received from the mobile device (step 852). 3A, a user may enter a query 306 (e.g., "exp") on a
The transmission cost for loading the resource via the metering network is determined (step 854). For example, the proxy system 130 may determine transmission costs associated with loading each of the resources associated with the
One or more sponsored content items are identified for delivery with the resource, and the sponsored content items are included in one or more slots for presentation with the third party content associated with the resource (step 856). Each sponsored content item has an associated bid that indicates the amount to be paid by the sponsor for presentation of the given sponsored content item.
4J illustrates an
The amount of credit to be awarded for the load costs is determined based at least in part on the bid (step 858). For example, the amount of credit may include the amount of transmission cost, e.g., the amount of credit used to reduce the amount of transmission cost for loading the resource that the content sponsor will be willing to sponsor. In some implementations, bids received from content sponsors and associated with content items 866a through 866c may include a content sponsor amount to be used to sponsor the content. For example, content sponsor A may (for example, for the impression of his ad)
In some implementations, the transmission cost may be offset by credits associated with a plurality of different sponsored content items that will appear in connection with the loaded resource. For example, a plurality of sponsored content items may be included in a single resource, e.g., each of the sponsored content items is associated with a different content sponsor sponsoring the transmission cost for loading the resource. In this example, the sum of the individual credits results in a total credit that offsets the total transmission cost, which results in the user being loaded with the resource for free.
A label responsive to the request is provided for presentation on the mobile device, the label indicating a reduced cost to load the resource when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored based at least in part on the determined amount of credit (Step 860). In one example, the
In some implementations, the
In some implementations, the
4k is a flowchart of an
A request for the resource is received from the mobile device (step 872). For example, referring to FIG. 3A, a user may enter a query 306 (e.g., "exp") on a
The transfer cost for loading the resource via the metering network is determined (step 874). For example, the proxy system 130 may determine transmission costs associated with loading each of the
Potential sponsors to reduce the cost of loading resources for the end user are determined (step 876). For example, the potential sponsor may be a publisher associated with the resource, e.g., a publisher of a web page corresponding to the
The time to load the resource is determined, and a time factor is determined for use in adjusting the transfer price based on demand for the time period associated with the time (step 878). For example, the content management system may identify a time factor (e.g., a cost reduction) associated with a time period (e.g., 6PM to 9PM) and a demand period (e.g., demand periods based on peak usage by end users) have.
The adjusted transmission price is determined based at least in part on the time factor, some potential sponsors and the transmission cost (step 880). For example, the price engine 124 may calculate an adjusted price for the cost of loading the resource associated with the
A label in response to the request is provided for presentation on the mobile device, which indicates a reduced cost to load the resource when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored (step 882). Referring to Figure 5h, an exemplary label is presented on the mobile device, which identifies the transmission cost for loading the resource at a later time. For example,
In some implementations, a plurality of adjusted transmission prices are determined, e.g., each of the transmission prices is for a different time period, and each of the transmission prices potentially has a different reduced cost for the end user. In some implementations, when a plurality of coordinated transmission peaks are determined, the lowest cost may be initially presented to the end user, and other costs associated with other time periods may be used for various controls to be accessible to the end user have.
5A illustrates an
5B shows an
In some implementations, the
FIG. 5C shows an exemplary
5D and 5E illustrate exemplary charging interfaces that may appear on a destination web page for users to add credits to their accounts. 5D shows a
5F shows an exemplary balance bar on the search result page. For example, the
5G illustrates an exemplary email application for displaying
Figure 5h shows an exemplary label presented on the mobile device that identifies the transmission cost for loading the resource at a later time. For example,
Figure 5i illustrates exemplary displays that include the user ' s last activity. For example, the
5J shows a table 458 of exemplary guaranteed rates. For example, the
Figure 5K illustrates an
6 is a block diagram of
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The memory may include, for example, flash memory and / or MRAM memory, as discussed below. In one implementation, the computer program material is typed into an information carrier. The computer program product includes instructions that, when executed, perform one or more methods, such as the methods described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium, such as a
The
The
Various implementations of the systems and techniques described herein may be realized with digital electronic networks, integrated circuits, spatially designed ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), computer hardware, firmware, software, and / or combinations thereof . These various implementations may include implementations into one or more computer programs, which are executable and / or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor, A special purpose or general purpose processor coupled to receive data and instructions from at least one input device and at least one output device and to transmit data and instructions to them.
These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software applications, or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor and may be implemented in a high-level procedure and / or in an object-oriented programming language and / . The terms "machine readable medium "," computer readable medium ", as used herein, include machine readable media for receiving machine instructions as machine readable signals to cause a machine readable medium to store machine instructions and / Devices, and / or devices (e.g., magnetic disks, optical disks, memory, programmable logic devices (PLDs)) that are used to provide a computer program product. The term "machine readable signal" refers to any signal that is used to provide machine instructions and / or data to a programmable processor.
To provide for interaction with a user, the systems and techniques described herein may be implemented in a computer-readable medium having a keyboard and a pointing device (e.g., a mouse or trackball) on which a user can provide input to the computer, (E.g., a cathode ray tube (CRT), or a liquid crystal display (LCD) monitor). Other types of devices may likewise be used to provide for interaction with the user, for example, feedback provided to a user may include some form of sensory feedback (e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, Feedback), and the input from the user may be received in any form including acoustic, speech or tactile input.
The systems and techniques described herein may include back-end components (e.g., as a data server) or may include a middleware component (e.g., an application server) or a front-end component A client computer having a graphical user interface or web browser capable of interacting with implementations of the disclosed systems and techniques), or a computing system including any combination of such back-end, middleware, or front-end components. The components of the system may be interconnected by some form or medium of digital data communication (e.g., a communication network). Examples of communication networks include a local area network ("LAN") and a wide area network ("WAN") and the Internet.
The computing system may include clients and servers. The client mill servers are generally remote from each other, typically interacting over a communication network. The client and server relationships are generated by computer programs that run on each computer and have a client-server relationship to each other.
While the specification contains many specific implementation details, it should be understood that they are not to be construed as limiting the scope of any invention or range of what can be claimed, but rather, Should be interpreted. Certain features described herein in the context of separate implementations may also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely, various features described in the context of a single implementation may also be implemented in multiple implementations, either individually or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover, although one or more features from the claimed combination may, in some cases, be deleted from the combination, although the features may be described above as acting in particular combinations and may even be claimed as such at the outset, The claimed combination can be derived from a variant of the subcombination or subcombination.
Similarly, although operations are shown in a particular order in the figures, it should be understood that these operations may be performed in a particular order or sequential order as shown, or all of the illustrated operations must be performed, in order to achieve the desired results It should not be interpreted. In certain situations, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover, the separation of various system components in the above-described implementations should not be interpreted as requiring such separation in all implementations, and the described program components and systems are generally integrated into a single software product, Lt; RTI ID = 0.0 > software. ≪ / RTI >
Thus, specific embodiments of the present invention have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases, the actions described in the claims may be performed in a different order and still achieve the desired results. Additionally, the processes illustrated in the accompanying drawings do not necessarily require the particular order or sequential order shown to achieve the desired results. In certain implementations, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.
Claims (29)
Receiving a query from a client device;
In response to the query, identifying search results using one or more processors, the search results including one or more resources;
Determining, for at least one resource out of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource using the one or more processors; And
And providing the search results to the client device, the method comprising providing a label associated with the resource indicating the size.
Wherein the label includes an estimate of a size based at least in part on historical data associated with the resource.
Wherein the label includes an estimate of the size based at least in part on prior loads of the one resource.
Wherein the label comprises an estimated size at least partially based on a search of the resource by a proxy prior to transmission of data associated with the one resource in response to the query. .
Wherein the label comprises a size estimate of the transmission and a descriptor of a relative size.
Wherein the label is a price associated with the data transfer.
Wherein the price is an amount to be charged by a carrier to convey the size of the data according to a data plan associated with the user of the client device.
Receiving, via the browser, a request to load a resource;
Determining the size of the data transfer to load the resource using one or more processors before loading the resource; And
And presenting to the user information that includes a label related to the size before loading the resource.
In the proxy, receiving a request for a resource from a client device;
Using one or more processors to determine a size of data transfer required to complete the request; And
Providing the client device with an estimate of the size of the data transfer required to complete the request before exposing the client device to data charges resulting from the transfer of data associated with the request Wherein the computer-implemented method comprises the steps of:
Passing a request from the proxy to the resource;
Receiving data from the resource in response to the request;
Determining a size associated with the one or more resources referenced in the received data; And
Further comprising providing the client device with size data associated with the one or more referenced resources with the received data.
Passing the request from the proxy to the resource;
Receiving data from the resource in response to the request; And
Further comprising determining a size of the data transfer from the resource based on the received data.
A plurality of mobile devices, each mobile device being configured to communicate with the network to download resources from the network, the network being associated with a carrier;
A data bundle, said data bundle representing data download capacity to be shared among said plurality of mobile devices for data downloads from said network;
Negotiating a price for the carrier and the data bundle;
Receiving requests from mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices to download data from the network;
In response to the received requests, data to each user of the mobile device providing the request, the data comprising rate information for initiating a respective download associated with the request, Presenting at least partially based on the negotiated price and not related to airtime or data charges for the download to be originally charged by the carrier; And
And debiting an account associated with the user using a group price based on the rate information after successful reception of the resource at the user's mobile device.
Further comprising estimating a capacity for the plurality of mobile devices over a time period,
The negotiation also includes negotiating a price for all data downloads associated with the plurality of devices, which are completed during the time period up to the capacity.
Further comprising the step of acknowledging the rate information from each user and receiving a confirmation to initiate downloads in response to the request.
Determining a cost for downloading data in response to the request, aggregating costs for downloads over a period of time, and aggregating the group price for a subsequent time period based at least in part on the aggregation cost. Or determining a correction factor to be applied to the negotiated price. ≪ Desc / Clms Page number 22 >
Wherein the group price is less than the charges incurred from the carrier to download the requested resource.
Receiving a query from a client device;
In response to the query, identifying search results using one or more processors, the search results including one or more resources;
Determining, for at least one resource out of the search results, the size of the data transfer required to access the one resource using the one or more processors; And
Providing search results to the client device including providing a label associated with the resource indicating a rate-sensitive cost for downloading an item,
Providing the label includes:
Determining a true cost for downloading the item from at least one carrier,
Determining a price sensitivity of the user including evaluating historical information on downloads and costs incurred for each of the downloads, and
And calculating the rate-sensitive cost based at least in part on the actual price and the determined price sensitivity. ≪ Desc / Clms Page number 22 >
Determining the actual cost comprises receiving from the carrier pricing information related to a time period for downloading the resource, wherein the pricing information includes information indicating that a given carrier is in the time period < RTI ID = 0.0 >Lt; RTI ID = 0.0 > (discount) < / RTI >
Determining a rate sensitivity, the step of determining rate sensitivity determining pricing curves for a given user, including price point information reflecting when a user agrees to download based at least in part on the historical information - and; And
Using the price point to calculate the rate sensitive cost. ≪ Desc / Clms Page number 19 >
Receiving, via the browser, a request to load a resource;
Prior to loading the resource, using one or more processors to determine a size of data transfer for loading the resource; And
Wherein the label includes a rate sensitive price for loading the resource from a carrier, and the presented information includes: a first price, a second price, and a second price;
A determination of the actual cost to download the item from at least one carrier,
Determining a price sensitivity of the user including evaluating historical information on downloads and expenses incurred for each of the downloads, and
And at least partially based on the actual price and the rate sensitive cost based at least in part on the determined price sensitivity.
In the proxy, receiving a request for a resource from a client device;
Using one or more processors to determine a size of data transfer required to complete the request; And
Prior to exposing the client device to data charges resulting from the transfer of data associated with the request, determining an estimate of a size of the data transfer required to complete the request and a rate- Device, the estimation comprising: < RTI ID = 0.0 >
A determination of the actual cost to download the item from at least one carrier,
Determining a price sensitivity of the user including evaluating historical information on downloads and expenses incurred for each of the downloads, and
And at least partially based on the actual price and the rate sensitive cost based at least in part on the determined price sensitivity.
Passing the request from the proxy to the resource;
Receiving data from the resource in response to the request;
Determining a size associated with one or more resources referenced in the received data; And
And providing size data associated with the one or more referenced resources to the client device along with the received data.
Passing the request from the proxy to the resource;
Receiving data from the resource in response to the request; And
And determining a size of data transfer from the resource based on the received data.
Receiving, by the processor, a request for data from an application on a metered data network;
Prior to delivering the data, using one or more processors to determine a size of an associated data transfer to satisfy the request; And
And presenting to the user information that includes a label related to the size prior to delivering the data, wherein the presented information comprises a rate sensitive cost for the data delivery, the presented information comprising:
A determination of the actual cost to download the item from at least one carrier,
Determining a price sensitivity of the user including evaluating historical information on downloads and expenses incurred for each of the downloads, and
And at least partially based on the actual price and the rate sensitive cost based at least in part on the determined price sensitivity.
Receiving a request to load a resource from a mobile device;
Determining a transmission cost for loading the resource via a metering network;
Identifying one or more sponsored content items for delivery with the resource, the sponsored content items being associated with third party content associated with the resource; Each sponsored content item having an associated bid (bid) representing the amount to be paid by the sponsor for presentation of a given sponsored content item;
Determining an amount of credit awarded for load costs based at least in part on the bid; And
A label that responds to the request indicating a reduced cost to load the resource for presentation on the mobile device when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored based at least in part on the determined amount of credit. Said method comprising the steps of:
Further comprising determining minimum threshold revenue required to be provided to the publisher by the sponsor in connection with presentation of the content item sponsored with the resource, and
Determining the amount of credit to be awarded for the load costs is also based on the minimum-threshold revenue, and determining when the bid exceeds the minimum-threshold revenue.
Wherein the amount of credit is used to reduce the transmission cost and at least a portion of the revenue attributable to the bidding for the sponsored content item is provided to offset the transmission cost. Way.
Wherein the transmission cost is offset by credits associated with a plurality of different sponsored content items to be associated with the loaded resource.
Receiving a request for a resource from a mobile device;
Determining a transmission cost for loading the resource via a metering network;
Determining the potential sponsors to reduce the cost of loading the resource for an end user, the sponsor being selected from an advertiser associated with the publisher or one or more slots associated with the resource, the content of the one or more slots Is presented with third party content associated with the resource;
Determining a time factor for use in adjusting the transfer price based on a time for loading the resource and a demand for the time period associated with the time;
Determining an adjusted transfer price based at least in part on the time factor, certain potential sponsors and the transfer cost; And
And providing a label in response to the request, the reduced cost for loading the resource to present on the mobile device when the load of the resource is partially or wholly sponsored. .
Applications Claiming Priority (11)
Application Number | Priority Date | Filing Date | Title |
---|---|---|---|
US13/422,164 | 2012-03-16 | ||
US13/422,164 US20130246413A1 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2012-03-16 | Providing information prior to downloading resources |
US201261612901P | 2012-03-19 | 2012-03-19 | |
US61/612,901 | 2012-03-19 | ||
US13/559,925 US8880543B2 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2012-07-27 | Aggregation system for downloading resources |
US13/559,925 | 2012-07-27 | ||
US13/671,103 US8862564B2 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2012-11-07 | Sponsoring resource downloads |
US13/671,103 | 2012-11-07 | ||
US13/675,103 US20130246213A1 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2012-11-13 | Using rate-sensitivities to price downloads |
US13/675,103 | 2012-11-13 | ||
PCT/US2013/031426 WO2013138603A1 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2013-03-14 | Providing information prior to downloading resources |
Publications (2)
Publication Number | Publication Date |
---|---|
KR20140136997A true KR20140136997A (en) | 2014-12-01 |
KR102040781B1 KR102040781B1 (en) | 2019-11-06 |
Family
ID=49161812
Family Applications (1)
Application Number | Title | Priority Date | Filing Date |
---|---|---|---|
KR1020147028954A KR102040781B1 (en) | 2012-03-16 | 2013-03-14 | Providing information prior to downloading resources |
Country Status (5)
Country | Link |
---|---|
JP (1) | JP6140802B2 (en) |
KR (1) | KR102040781B1 (en) |
AU (1) | AU2013232015A1 (en) |
CA (1) | CA2866887A1 (en) |
WO (1) | WO2013138603A1 (en) |
Cited By (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
WO2016122683A1 (en) * | 2015-01-30 | 2016-08-04 | Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development Lp | Workflow management for multiple user data storage and separation |
Families Citing this family (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
CN117056622A (en) * | 2019-10-22 | 2023-11-14 | 海信视像科技股份有限公司 | Voice control method and display device |
Citations (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20030187806A1 (en) * | 2002-03-28 | 2003-10-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | Calculating and displaying the cost of downloading web content |
US20090100024A1 (en) * | 2007-10-11 | 2009-04-16 | Manesh Nasser K | Multi-modal mobile platform |
US20090176482A1 (en) * | 2008-01-08 | 2009-07-09 | Daryl Martin | Method and system for displaying remote cache information |
KR20100094517A (en) * | 2007-12-18 | 2010-08-26 | 톰슨 라이센싱 | Apparatus and method for file size estimation over broadcast networks |
US20110235589A1 (en) * | 2008-03-18 | 2011-09-29 | Johnny Kristensen | Communication System for Voice-Over Internet Protocol Using License-Free Frequencies and a Mobile Telephone |
US20110288937A1 (en) * | 2010-05-24 | 2011-11-24 | Manoogian Iii John | Scaling persona targeted advertisements |
Family Cites Families (9)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
JP2004021304A (en) * | 2002-06-12 | 2004-01-22 | Sharp Corp | Client-server type download system |
AU2002953500A0 (en) * | 2002-12-20 | 2003-01-09 | Redbank Manor Pty Ltd | A system and method of requesting, viewing and acting on search results in a time-saving manner |
US20040215775A1 (en) * | 2003-04-24 | 2004-10-28 | Bookfactory, Llc, A California Limited Liability Corporation | System, method and computer program product for network resource processing |
WO2005033957A1 (en) * | 2003-09-30 | 2005-04-14 | Sony Corporation | Content acquisition method |
WO2006137147A1 (en) * | 2005-06-24 | 2006-12-28 | Vodafone K.K. | Data communication method, data communication system, and mobile communication terminal device |
US7577665B2 (en) * | 2005-09-14 | 2009-08-18 | Jumptap, Inc. | User characteristic influenced search results |
JP5439761B2 (en) * | 2008-07-25 | 2014-03-12 | 富士通株式会社 | Content reproduction apparatus, content reproduction method, and content reproduction program |
US8108248B2 (en) * | 2009-03-06 | 2012-01-31 | Microsoft Corporation | Market design for a resource exchange system |
WO2010118515A1 (en) * | 2009-04-17 | 2010-10-21 | Nortel Networks Limited | Method and system for providing an uplink structure and improved channelization scheme in a wireless communication network |
-
2013
- 2013-03-14 WO PCT/US2013/031426 patent/WO2013138603A1/en active Application Filing
- 2013-03-14 AU AU2013232015A patent/AU2013232015A1/en not_active Abandoned
- 2013-03-14 KR KR1020147028954A patent/KR102040781B1/en active IP Right Grant
- 2013-03-14 CA CA2866887A patent/CA2866887A1/en not_active Abandoned
- 2013-03-14 JP JP2015500616A patent/JP6140802B2/en active Active
Patent Citations (6)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
US20030187806A1 (en) * | 2002-03-28 | 2003-10-02 | International Business Machines Corporation | Calculating and displaying the cost of downloading web content |
US20090100024A1 (en) * | 2007-10-11 | 2009-04-16 | Manesh Nasser K | Multi-modal mobile platform |
KR20100094517A (en) * | 2007-12-18 | 2010-08-26 | 톰슨 라이센싱 | Apparatus and method for file size estimation over broadcast networks |
US20090176482A1 (en) * | 2008-01-08 | 2009-07-09 | Daryl Martin | Method and system for displaying remote cache information |
US20110235589A1 (en) * | 2008-03-18 | 2011-09-29 | Johnny Kristensen | Communication System for Voice-Over Internet Protocol Using License-Free Frequencies and a Mobile Telephone |
US20110288937A1 (en) * | 2010-05-24 | 2011-11-24 | Manoogian Iii John | Scaling persona targeted advertisements |
Cited By (1)
Publication number | Priority date | Publication date | Assignee | Title |
---|---|---|---|---|
WO2016122683A1 (en) * | 2015-01-30 | 2016-08-04 | Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development Lp | Workflow management for multiple user data storage and separation |
Also Published As
Publication number | Publication date |
---|---|
CA2866887A1 (en) | 2013-09-19 |
WO2013138603A1 (en) | 2013-09-19 |
KR102040781B1 (en) | 2019-11-06 |
AU2013232015A1 (en) | 2014-09-25 |
JP2015517139A (en) | 2015-06-18 |
JP6140802B2 (en) | 2017-05-31 |
Similar Documents
Publication | Publication Date | Title |
---|---|---|
US20130246213A1 (en) | Using rate-sensitivities to price downloads | |
US8682290B2 (en) | Systems and methods for automatic generation, registration and mobile phone billing of a pod using third party web page content | |
US8380163B2 (en) | Package billing for micro-transactions | |
US20070067267A1 (en) | Systems and methods for managing the display of sponsored links together with search results in a search engine system | |
US20090197582A1 (en) | Platform for mobile advertising and microtargeting of promotions | |
US20090018913A1 (en) | System for serving targeted advertisements over mobile messaging services | |
US20170308926A1 (en) | ARRANGEMENTS FOR FACILITATING e-COMMERCE VIA A MESSAGING SERVICE WITH SEEMLESS TRANSITION TO AN IP BASED SERVICE | |
US20110251888A1 (en) | System and Method for Managing Tailored Marketing to Users of Wireless Devices | |
US8862564B2 (en) | Sponsoring resource downloads | |
WO2009111733A2 (en) | Exchange for tagged user information with scarcity control | |
CN109146572A (en) | A kind of advertisement delivery system, method, apparatus, computer equipment and storage medium | |
WO2007084593A2 (en) | Package billing for micro-transactions | |
US20070174127A1 (en) | Method and system for adjusting the balance of account of the advertiser in a keyword advertisement | |
US9165312B2 (en) | Mobile device advertising chains | |
US20130246312A1 (en) | Providing information prior to downloading resources | |
US8880543B2 (en) | Aggregation system for downloading resources | |
US11461759B1 (en) | System for transmitting customer data from a device | |
KR20150020422A (en) | System for providing advertisement for wallpaer of smart phone | |
KR102040781B1 (en) | Providing information prior to downloading resources | |
US20130246413A1 (en) | Providing information prior to downloading resources | |
US11087359B1 (en) | Immersive content items | |
US20130090958A1 (en) | Mobile electronic device interactive application method and mobile electronic device interactive application system | |
WO2007034236A2 (en) | Systems and methods for managing the display of sponsored links together with search results in a search engine system | |
KR20240031686A (en) | Method and electronic device for providing information on financial benefits of membership subscription for services | |
US20140207613A1 (en) | System and method for reputation-building voluntary digital commerce |
Legal Events
Date | Code | Title | Description |
---|---|---|---|
E902 | Notification of reason for refusal | ||
E701 | Decision to grant or registration of patent right | ||
GRNT | Written decision to grant |